<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="dita-13-spec-support" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>DITA 1.3 support</title>
  <shortdesc><ph id="shortdesc-ph">DITA Open Toolkit <keyword keyref="release"/> provides processing support for the
      OASIS DITA 1.3 specification. Initial preview support for this specification was added in version 2.0 of the
      toolkit; version 2.2 extends this foundation to support key scopes and branch filtering along with additional DITA
      1.3 features.</ph></shortdesc>

  <conbody>
    <p id="p">Because DITA 1.3 is fully backwards compatible with previous DITA DTDs and schemas, DITA-OT 2.2 provides
      the 1.3 materials as the default DTDs for processing. The XML Catalog resolution maps any references for
      unversioned DITA doctypes to the 1.3 DTDs. All processing ordinarily dependent on the 1.0, 1.1, or 1.2 definitions
      continues to work as usual, and any documents that make use of the newer DITA 1.3 elements or attributes will be
      supported with specific new processing.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Initial Preview Support for DITA 1.3 in DITA-OT 2.0</title>
      <p>The following DITA 1.3 features were implemented in version 2.0 of the toolkit. Issue numbers correspond to the
        tracking number in the
        <xref keyref="dita-ot-issues"/>.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Support DITA 1.3 link syntax (milestone 2)
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1649" format="html" scope="external">#1649</xref></li>
        <li>Support DITA 1.3 cascade attribute (milestone 2)
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1636" format="html" scope="external">#1636</xref></li>
        <li>Implement DITA 1.3 profiling (milestone 2)
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1635" format="html" scope="external">#1635</xref></li>
        <li>Add new DITA 1.3 highlighting elements (milestone 4)
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1651" format="html" scope="external">#1651</xref></li>
        <li>Add DITA 1.3 markup and xml domain support (milestone 4)
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1652" format="html" scope="external">#1652</xref></li>
        <li>Add DITA 1.3 <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element (milestone 4)
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1654" format="html" scope="external">#1654</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Additional DITA 1.3 support in DITA-OT 2.2</title>
      <p>The following DITA 1.3 features were implemented in version 2.2 of the toolkit.</p>
      <note type="important" id="2094">The DITA 1.3 grammars are now used as the default DTDs for processing
        <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2094" scope="external" format="html">#2094</xref></note>
      <ul>
        <li id="1969">Initial implementation of DITA 1.3 branch filtering
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1969" scope="external" format="html">#1969</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1637" scope="external" format="html">#1637</xref>
          <p>The implementation is a separate module that is run before keyref processing. The process
            <ul>
              <li>Splits branches so that each branch contains a single ditavalref </li>
              <li>Generates <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attributes for each branch-generated
                  <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
              </li>
              <li>Filters the map based on branch filters </li>
              <li>Rewrites duplicate generated copy-to targets with a numbered <tt>-#</tt> suffix </li>
              <li>Copies and filters generated copy-to targets </li>
              <li>Filters topics that were not branch-generated </li>
            </ul>
          </p>
        </li>
        <li id="1979">Initial support for DITA 1.3 key scopes, including multiple scope names in a single
            <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1979" scope="external" format="html">#1979</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1648" scope="external" format="html">#1648</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2004" scope="external" format="html">#2004</xref>
        </li>
        <li id="1783">The <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute is now supported on <xmlelement>object</xmlelement> elements
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1783" scope="external" format="html">#1783</xref>
        </li>
        <li id="1968">Processing order has been revised to process any same topic fragments used in conrefs before the
          conref phase, to enable content references to elements in the same topic using a reference such as
            <codeph>&lt;p&#xA0;conref="#./ID"/></codeph> as reported in
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1649" scope="external" format="html">#1649</xref>.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/pull/1968" scope="external" format="html">#1968</xref>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <note>For the latest status information on DITA 1.3-related features, see the
        <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=label%3A%22DITA+1.3%22+is%3Aclosed" scope="external"
          format="html">DITA 1.3 label</xref> in the GitHub issues tracker.</note>
    </section>
  </conbody>

  <related-links>
    <link format="html"
      href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part3-all-inclusive/dita-v1.3-os-part3-all-inclusive.html"
      scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA Version 1.3 Part 3: All-Inclusive Edition (HTML)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="pdf"
      href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/part3-all-inclusive/dita-v1.3-os-part3-all-inclusive.pdf"
      scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA Version 1.3 Part 3: All-Inclusive Edition (PDF)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="zip" href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dita/v1.3/os/dita-v1.3-os.zip" scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA Version 1.3 (Distribution ZIP of the DITA source)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="html" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=dita-adoption"
      scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA Adoption Technical Committee</linktext>
      <desc>Contains links to many white papers about using new DITA 1.3 features.</desc>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</concept>
