<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="dita1.2specification" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>DITA 1.2 support</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit <keyword keyref="release"/> supports the DITA 1.2 specification.
Although 1.2 is no longer the latest version of DITA, grammar files (DTD and XML Schema), the
grammar files are still included with DITA-OT so that content explicitly created for 1.2 continues
to work.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>Highlights of DITA 1.2 support in the toolkit include:<ul>
        <li>Processing support for all new elements and attributes</li>
        <li>Link redirection and text replacement using <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></li>
        <li>New <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute in maps to allow references to topics
that will not produce output artifacts</li>
        <li>New content reference extensions, including the ability to reference a range of
elements, to push content into another topic, and to use keys for resolving a
<xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
        <li>The ability to filter content with controlled values and taxonomies using Subject Scheme
Maps</li>
        <li>Processing support for both default versions of task (original, limited task, and the general task with
          fewer constraints on element order)</li>
        <li>Acronym and abbreviation support with the new <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> element</li>
        <li>New link grouping abilities available with headers in relationship tables</li>
        <li>OASIS Subcommittee specializations from the learning and machine industry domains (note that the core
          toolkit contains only basic processing support for these, but can be extended to produce related artifacts
          such as SCORM modules)</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To find detailed information about any of these features, see the specification documents at
OASIS. The DITA Adoption Technical Committee has also produced several papers to describe individual
new features. In general, the white papers are geared more towards DITA users and authors, while the
specification is geared more towards tool implementors, though both may be useful for either
audience. The DITA Adoption papers can be found from that committee's main web page.</p>
  </conbody>
  <related-links>
    <link format="html" href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/spec/DITA1.2-spec.html" scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA 1.2 Specification (XHTML)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="pdf" href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/spec/DITA1.2-spec.pdf" scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA 1.2 Specification (PDF)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="zip" href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/spec/DITA1.2-spec.zip" scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA 1.2 Specification (zip of the DITA source)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="zip" href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/spec/DITA1.2-spec-chm.zip" scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA 1.2 Specification (zip of the HTML Help)</linktext>
    </link>
    <link format="html" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=dita-adoption" scope="external">
      <linktext>DITA Adoption Technical Committee</linktext>
      <desc>Contains links to many white papers about using new DITA 1.2 features.</desc>
    </link>
  </related-links>
</concept>
