<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="plugin-extension-points">
  <title>Extension point reference</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Extension points</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit provides a series of extension points that can be used to integrate changes into the core
    code. Extension points are defined in the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file for each plug-in. When plug-ins are
    installed, DITA-OT makes each extension visible to the rest of the toolkit.
  <draft-comment
            author="markgif">This means that when you use an extension point in your custom plug-in,
            that extension point might also run when completely separate plug-ins are run. You might
            have to conditionalize the action in your plugin to keep it from running with other
            plugins. (I can give a couple examples of how to do this if you want.)<p>By the way,
                when I clicked the Edit this page button on this page:
                https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/extension-points/plugin-extension-points.html, it opened
                the Oxygen Web Author, and I made my comment. But then I could not save it because I
                did not have commit access, and there was no way I could find to fork the repo at
                that point. So it seems like the Edit this page button is not very usable, unless I
                missed something. I had to trace back to where the docs repo was, fork it, and then
                make my comment manually.</p></draft-comment></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>extension points
          <indexterm>overview</indexterm>
          <indexterm>plug-in</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>extension points
          <index-see-also>preprocessing</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm><filepath>plugin.xml</filepath></indexterm>
        <indexterm>topicmerge
          <index-see>org.dita.pdf2.xsl.topicmerge</index-see></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
</reference>
