<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="implementation-dependent-features">
  <title>Implementation dependent features</title>
  <refbody>
    <section id="section_jla_oqn_qc">
      <title>Chunking</title>
      <p>Supported chunking methods:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>select-topic</li>
        <li>select-document</li>
        <li>select-branch</li>
        <li>by-topic</li>
        <li>by-document</li>
        <li>to-content</li>
        <li>to-navigation.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>When no chunk attribute values are given, no chunking is performed.</p>
      <note>For HTML-based transformation types, this is effectively equivalent to select-document and by-document
        defaults.</note>
      <p>Error recovery:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>When two tokens from the same category are used, no error or warning is thrown.<draft-comment>This violates
            DITA 1.2 spec.</draft-comment></li>
        <li>When an unrecognized chunking method is used, no error or warning is thrown.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_zaa_bgs_qc">
      <title>Filtering</title>
      <p>Error recovery:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>When there are multiple <xmlelement>revprop</xmlelement> elements with the same val attribute, no error or warning
          is thrown</li>
        <li>When multiple prop elements define a duplicate attribute and value combination, attribute default, or
          fall-back behavior, the <msgnum>DOTJ007E</msgnum> error is thrown.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="section_kjq_egs_qc">
      <title>Debug attributes</title>
      <p>The debug attributes are populated as follows:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>xtrf</dt>
          <dd>absolute system path of the source document</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>xtrc</dt>
          <dd>element counter that uses the
            format<codeblock>element-name ":" integer-counter ";" line-number ":" column-number</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="section_dco_qgs_qc">
      <title>Image scaling</title>
      <p>If both height and width attributes are given, the image is scaled non-uniformly.</p>
      <p>If the scale attribute is not an unsigned integer, no error or warning is thrown during preprocessing.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Map processing</title>
      <p>When a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references a map contains child <codeph>topicref</codeph>
        elements, the <msgnum>DOTX068W</msgnum> error is thrown and the child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements are
        ignored. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_h3h_jsx_1h">
      <title>Link processing</title>
      <p>When the value of <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute is not a valid URI reference, the <msgnum>DOTJ054E</msgnum>
        error is thrown. Depending on the
        <xref href="../parameters/parameters-base.dita#base/processing-mode">processing-mode</xref> setting, error
        recovery may be attempted.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Copy-to processing</title>
      <p>When the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute is specified on a <codeph>topicref</codeph>, the content of the
          <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element is not used to override the short description of the topic.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Coderef processing</title>
      <p>When <xmlelement>coderef</xmlelement> elements are used within codeblocks to reference external files with literal code
        samples, the system default character set is used as the target file encoding unless a different character set
        is explicitly defined via the mechanisms described under
        <xref href="extended-functionality.dita#code-reference/coderef-charset"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
