<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="history-pdf-transformation">
 <title>History of the PDF transformation</title>
 <shortdesc>The DITA Open Toolkit (DITA-OT) PDF transformation has an interesting history.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>When IBM developed the code that later became the DITA-OT, a PDF transformation was not part of it. IBM had their
   own processing chain for producing PDFs from SGML, which they had developed over several decades.</p>
  <p>Since the DITA-OT needed a PDF transformation, a proof-of-concept transformation was developed. Since this
   proof-of-concept transformation was not robust, companies began to develop their own PDF transformations. One
   company, Idiom Technologies, made their transformation (known as the PDF2 transformation) available as open source on
   23 February 2006.</p>
  <p>The Idiom plug-in initially was available as a separately-downloadable plug-in that could be integrated into the
   DITA-OT. Later the DITA-OT project formally incorporated the Idiom plug-in; beginning with DITA-OT version 1.5,
   released 18 December 2009, the PDF2 code became the basis of the PDF transformation. (The original PDF transformation
   was deprecated and renamed "legacypdf".)</p>
  <p>The fact that the current PDF transformation was not originally developed in parallel with the other core DITA-OT
   transformation led to anomalies that often confuse users:</p>
  <ul>
   <li>Elements are often (by default) styled differently in the XHTML and PDF transformations. For example, consider
    the <xmlelement>info</xmlelement> element in a task topic. In HTML output, this is an inline element; in PDF output,
    it is a block-level output.</li>
   <li>The auto-generated strings used for localization are different, and so languages that are supported by the
    DITA-OT differ based on whether the XHTML or PDF transformation is used.</li>
   <li>The Idiom plug-in used its own extension mechanism (customization directories) to provide overrides to the PDF
    transformation.</li>
   <li>Before the release of DITA 1.1 (which added support for the indexing domain), Idiom developed an index extension
    that used a FrameMaker-inspired syntax.</li>
  </ul>
 </conbody>
</concept>
