<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="ID" rev="2.6">
<title>Map-first preprocessing</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Map-first preprocessing</navtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc><ph id="map-first-preproc-desc">DITA-OT 2.6 provides a beta map-first preprocessing
option as an alternative to the default <codeph>preprocess</codeph> operation. The method, which was
introduced in DITA-OT 2.5 as an experimental feature, has been improved and is ready for use in many
production scenarios. Map-first-preprocessing provides the same functionality as the default
<codeph>preprocess</codeph>, but takes a different approach.</ph></shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p id="map-first-preproc-gain">Whereas the default preprocessing routine handles both maps and
topics at the same time, often switching back and forth between map operations and topic operations,
the map-first approach only begins processing topics after nearly all map processing is complete.
This simplifies the processing logic and creates cleaner module responsibilities, which makes it
easier to process only those topics that are actually referenced after filtering, for example, or to
only process the map to validate the map structure.</p>
<p>The current preprocessing architecture was established during the DITA 1.0 era when there were
fewer DITA features that operated on the map level. Initially, the difference between processing
modes was not that great. DITA 1.2 and 1.3 introduced many more map-level features such as keys and
key scopes that make it difficult to reliably work with topics before all map features have been
resolved. The original preprocessing operation already handles many map operations first, but this
was not the original design and requires regular refactoring to handle edge cases. The new map-first
preprocessing is designed with this model in mind, improving the overall processing flow and making
it more formal about the map-first model.</p>
<note id="map-first-preproc-note">The map-first preprocessing option is not enabled by default in
DITA-OT 2.6, but is offered as a beta to allow users and vendors who extend preprocessing to provide
feedback on possible issues with the design. The new option will most likely become the default in
DITA-OT 3.0. Because the DITA-OT development team cannot have access to all varieties of DITA, all
edge cases, or even all the ways DITA-OT itself is extended, the switch to default map-first
preprocessing will be smoother for everybody if more people can test and provide feedback.</note>
<section>
<title>How to use preprocess</title>
<p>To use (or test) map-first preprocessing, call the <codeph>preprocess2</codeph> Ant target in
your custom transformation types instead of using the default <codeph>preprocess</codeph>
target.</p>
<p>For example, if you have a custom HTML5 transformation type named "myhtml", then you may have a
plugin extension that looks this:</p>
<codeblock>&lt;!-- Simple variant: set properties and call default HTML5 -->
&lt;target name="dita2myhtml" depends="myhtml.init,dita2html5"/>
</codeblock>
<p>This type of extension is quite common, and is used to set default properties for your
environment followed by a normal build to use those properties. In this case, you'll need to replace
<codeph>dita2html5</codeph> with the normal HTML5 steps, swapping out <codeph>preprocess</codeph>
for <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>;</p>
<codeblock>&lt;!-- Simple variant: set properties and call default HTML5 -->
&lt;target name="dita2myhtml" 
          depends="myhtml.init,
                   html5.init,
                   build-init,
                   <b>preprocess2,</b>
                   html5.topic,
                   html5.map,
                   html5.css"/>
</codeblock>
<p>Some custom transformation types already require you to repeat the default dependencies, in which
case you should already call <codeph>preprocess</codeph> directly, as in the following:</p>
<codeblock>&lt;!-- More complex variant: add processing steps to default HTML5 -->
&lt;target name="dita2myhtml"
          depends="myhtml.init,
                   build-init,
                   preprocess,
                   local-extensions-after-preprocess,
                   html5.topic,
                   html5.map,
                   html5.css"/></codeblock>
<p>In such cases, the modification is much easier – simply add a <codeph>2</codeph> to the existing
<codeph>preprocess</codeph> target.</p>
</section>
<section>
<title>How to let customers test in a production environment</title>
<p>In some cases, you may be responsible for maintaining transformation types that are actually run
by many people on your team or around a company. In this case, you likely need to maintain your
existing transformation types based on the backwards-compatible <codeph>preprocess</codeph> modules,
but also want to provide your colleagues with a way to test their own documents using
<codeph>preprocess2</codeph>.</p>
<p>There are several ways to do this. One fairly straightforward approach would be to create a new
custom transformation type that is exactly the same, except for preprocessing. For example, if you
have a local HTML variant called <codeph>myhtml</codeph> as above, instead of modifying that
transformation directly, you could create a second transformation type called
<codeph>myhtml-beta</codeph> that provides exactly the same support, but with the new map-first
preprocessing:</p>
<codeblock>&lt;!-- Original "myhtml" is not modified, used for production -->
&lt;target name="dita2myhtml5" depends="myhtml.init,dita2html5"/>

&lt;!-- "myhtml-beta" provides a way to test and provide feedback on preprocess2 -->
&lt;target name="dita2myhtml-beta" 
          depends="myhtml.init,
                   html5.init,
                   build-init,
                   <b>preprocess2,</b>
                   html5.topic,
                   html5.map,
                   html5.css"/>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section>
<title>Known limitations</title>
<ol>
<li>The <codeph>preprocess2</codeph> implementation details are subject to change; dependencies
within <codeph>preprocess2</codeph> may be renamed or removed based on feedback.</li>
<li>Subject schemes and delayed key resolution have not yet been implemented, but support for at
least subject schemes will likely be added in an upcoming release.</li>
<li>The <codeph>preprocess2</codeph> implementation does not currently support maps that use the
<xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute to refer to a topic, or topics that use <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> to
refer to a map. With 2.6, maps can only use <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> to refer to maps, and topics can
only use <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> to refer to topics.</li>
</ol>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
