<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="migrating-to-2.1">

  <title>Migrating to release 2.1</title>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 2.1, the <codeph>insertVariable</codeph> template was deprecated for PDF transformations and
    should be replaced with the <codeph>getVariable</codeph> template. Various <codeph>dita.<b>out.</b>map.*</codeph>
    targets have been deprecated in favor of updated <codeph>dita.map.*</codeph> equivalents. <draft-comment
      author="staylor">There are likely other changes that should be noted here. See
      <xref keyref="2.1-release-notes"/>. </draft-comment>
  </shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>PDF</title>
      <p>The following template has been deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming release:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>insertVariable</codeph>, use <codeph>getVariable</codeph> instead</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Calls to that template will result in warnings in the build log.</p>
      <p>To update your plug-in, make the following changes:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;xsl:call-template name="<line-through>insertVariable</line-through><b>getVariable</b>">
  &lt;xsl:with-param name="<line-through>theVariableID</line-through><b>id</b>" select="<varname>var-id</varname>"/>
  &lt;xsl:with-param name="<line-through>theParameters</line-through><b>params</b>">
    <varname>params</varname>
  &lt;/xsl:with-param>
&lt;/xsl:call-template></codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Deprecated targets</title>
      <p>The following build targets have been deprecated:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The <codeph>help</codeph> target that includes a reference to the current DITA-OT version during the build
          process.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Preprocessing</title>
      <p>The following Ant properties and generated list files have been deprecated:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><parmname>imagefile</parmname> property and <codeph>image.list</codeph> file</li>
        <li><parmname>htmlfile</parmname> property and <codeph>html.list</codeph> file</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The following pre-processing targets and extension points have been deprecated:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The <codeph>copy-subsidiary</codeph> target used to copy subsidiary files</li>
        <li>The <codeph>copy-subsidiary-check</codeph> target used to check for subsidiary files</li>
        <li>The <parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-subsidiary.pre</parmname> extension point used to insert an Ant target
          before the <codeph>copy-subsidiary</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>HTMLHelp</title>
      <p>The <codeph>dita.<b>out.</b>map.htmlhelp.*</codeph> targets have been deprecated and should be replaced with
        the updated <codeph>dita.map.htmlhelp.*</codeph> equivalents:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.htmlhelp.hhp</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.htmlhelp.hhp</codeph> instead</li>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.htmlhelp.hhc</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.htmlhelp.hhc</codeph> instead</li>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.htmlhelp.hhk</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.htmlhelp.hhk</codeph> instead</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>JavaHelp</title>
      <p>The <codeph>dita.<b>out.</b>map.javahelp.*</codeph> targets have been deprecated and should be replaced with
        the updated <codeph>dita.map.javahelp.*</codeph> equivalents:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.javahelp.toc</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.javahelp.toc</codeph> instead</li>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.javahelp.map</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.javahelp.map</codeph> instead</li>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.javahelp.set</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.javahelp.set</codeph> instead</li>
        <li><codeph>dita.out.map.javahelp.index</codeph>, use <codeph>dita.map.javahelp.index</codeph> instead</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>XHTML</title>
      <p>The <codeph>dita.<b>out.</b>map.xhtml.toc</codeph> target has been deprecated and should be replaced with the
        updated <codeph>dita.map.xhtml.toc</codeph> equivalent.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>HTML-based output formats</title>
      <draft-comment author="Roger" time="2016-04-03 18:30">
        <p>Further information required on recommended replacements for deprecated items.</p>
      </draft-comment>
      <p>The <varname>keydefs</varname> variable and the following XSL parameters have been deprecated:
        <ul>
          <li><parmname>KEYREF-FILE</parmname></li>
          <li><parmname>displaytext</parmname></li>
          <li><parmname>keys</parmname></li>
          <li><parmname>target</parmname></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>The following template modes have been deprecated:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>pull-in-title</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>common-processing-phrase-within-link</codeph></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
