<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="migrating-to-2.2">

  <title>Migrating to release 2.2</title>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 2.2, the <option>HTML5</option> transformation was refactored as its own
    plugin and separate plugins were created for each of the rendering engine-specific PDF
      transformations.<draft-comment author="staylor">There are likely other changes that should be
      noted here. </draft-comment>
  </shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>HTML5</title>
      <p>The <option>HTML5</option> transformation introduced in release 2.0 as part of the
          <option>XHTML</option> plugin has been moved to a separate <option>HTML5</option> plugin.
        Customizations that extended the previous HTML5 output under the <option>XHTML</option>
        plugin will probably need to be refactored on the new HTML5 plugin.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>PDF</title>
      <p>Processing specific to Apache FOP, Antenna House Formatter, and RenderX XEP has been
        separated into separate plugins for each of those rendering engines. Customizations that
        extended this processing might need to extend the new <keyword>org.dita.pdf2.fop</keyword>,
          <keyword>org.dita.pdf2.axf</keyword>, or <keyword>org.dita.pdf2.xep</keyword> plugins.</p>
      <p>PDF customizations that are not specific to a rendering engine can continue to extend the
          <keyword>org.dita.pdf2</keyword> plugin as before.</p>
    </section>
  <section>
      <draft-comment author="staylor">Consider whether some of the folloing might be useful:<ul>
          <li>some elements are mapped differently ;see <xref
              href="http://www.dita-ot.org/2.1/release-notes/index.html" format="html"
              scope="external">http://www.dita-ot.org/2.1/release-notes/index.html</xref></li>
          <li/>
          <li>The custom<systemoutput>FileUtils</systemoutput> code used to handle input and output
            in earlier versions of DITA-OT has been replaced with the <xref
              href="http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-io/" format="html" scope="external"
              >Apache Commons IO</xref> utilities library.<ul>
              <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1803" format="html"
                  scope="external">1803</xref> Use Commons IO</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><p>Support for theargs.odt.img.embed parameter has been removed from OpenDocument
              format transformations.</p>The previous default behavior was to embed images as
            Base64-encoded text, but editors do not use this as a default. Instead, office packages
            such as LibreOffice will convert embedded images into linked images on opening and
            saving an ODT file.<ul>
              <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1832" format="html"
                  scope="external">1832</xref> Remove support for args.odt.img.embed</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><p>Keydef processing has been removed from the XHTML rendering code</p>Keys are now
            resolved in one preprocessing step, whereas in earlier versions of DITA-OT, the XHTML
            code returned to thekeydef.xml file to look up targets for phrase elements and pull in
            text when needed. This change affects non-linking elements that can't take
              <systemoutput>@href</systemoutput> attributes, such as
              <systemoutput>&lt;ph></systemoutput>, <systemoutput>&lt;keyword></systemoutput>,
              <systemoutput>&lt;cite></systemoutput>, <systemoutput>&lt;dt></systemoutput>,
              <systemoutput>&lt;term></systemoutput>, and
              <systemoutput>&lt;indexterm></systemoutput> (when
              <systemoutput>$INDEXSHOW</systemoutput> is active).<ul>
              <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1837" format="html"
                  scope="external">1837</xref> Remove keydef processing from XHTML rendering
                code</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li><p>A new<systemoutput>dita.parser</systemoutput> extension point has been added to
              allow plug-ins to contribute a custom parser for DITA files.</p>If a custom DITA
            parser is defined, the preprocessing routines will use it during the gen-list and
            debug-filter stages to output DITA XML.<ul>
              <li><xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/1847" format="html"
                  scope="external">1847</xref> Extension-point for custom DITA parsers</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul></draft-comment>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Deprecated properties</title>
      <p>The following Ant properties have been deprecated:
        <ul>
          <li><parmname>user.input.file</parmname>, use <parmname>user.input.file.uri</parmname> instead to specify the
            input file system path</li>
          <li><parmname>user.input.dir</parmname>, use <parmname>user.input.dir.uri</parmname> instead to specify the
            input directory system path</li>
          <li><parmname>InputMapDir</parmname>, use <parmname>InputMapDir.uri</parmname> instead to specify the input
            map directory system path</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
