<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="migrating-to-2.5">

  <title>Migrating to release 2.5</title>

  <shortdesc>In DITA-OT 2.5, several frequently-overridden legacy style settings were removed from the default PDF
    plug-in. A separate <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeph> plug-in can be used to restore the original
    settings.</shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>This topic provides a summary of changes in DITA-OT 2.5 that may require modifications to custom stylesheets
        or plug-ins. For more information on changes in this release, see the
        <xref keyref="2.5-release-notes"/>.</note>
    </section>
    <!--<section>
      <title>HTML5</title>
      <ul>
        <li/>
      </ul>
    </section>-->
    <section id="25-legacy-pdf-plugin">
      <title>Legacy PDF styling moved to external plug-in</title>
      <p>Several legacy styles have been modified or removed in the default PDF plug-in <codeph>org.dita.pdf2</codeph>,
        including the following:</p>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>Task topics with a single step are now rendered as simple blocks (rather than as lists without
            labels).</li>
          <li>Table containers now inherit the initial indentation (<codeph>start-indent</codeph>) from the parent
            elements.</li>
          <li>Indentation has been removed from <xmlelement>example</xmlelement> elements.</li>
          <li>Links are no longer italicized.</li>
          <li>Titles for related link lists have been standardized to use bold font weight.</li>
          <li>Several remaining occurrences of left/right borders, margins, padding, and text alignment now use the
            corresponding start/end equivalents to better support right-to-left languages.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>Users that rely on these settings for their own customizations may install the
          <codeph>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeph> plug-in to restore the pre–2.5 styles if necessary.</p>
      <table frame="none" rowsep="1" colsep="0">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Plug-in </entry>
              <entry>Source code location</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeph></entry>
              <entry>
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/org.dita.pdf2.legacy" format="html" scope="external"/></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note type="tip">Run <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
        <parmname>--install</parmname>
        <filepath>https://github.com/dita-ot/org.dita.pdf2.legacy/archive/develop.zip</filepath> to install the plug-in
        and restore the pre–2.5 styles.</note>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
