<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="plugin-anttarget" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Adding a new target to the Ant build process</title>
  <shortdesc>Use the Ant conductor extension point (<codeph>dita.conductor.target.relative</codeph>) to make new targets
    available to the Ant processing pipeline. This can be done as part of creating a new transformation, extending
    pre-processing, or simply to make new Ant targets available to other plug-ins.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create an Ant project file that contains the new target.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the same directory as the Ant project file, create a wrapper file that imports the Ant project file: </cmd>
        <info><codeblock>&lt;dummy>
  &lt;import file="<varname>Ant-file</varname>"/>
&lt;/dummy></codeblock>where
            <varname>Ant-file</varname> is the project file that contains the new target.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file:</cmd>
        <stepxmp><codeblock>&lt;plugin id="<varname>plugin-id</varname>">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.target.relative" file="<varname>wrapper-file</varname>"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>where:<ul>
            <li><varname>plugin-id</varname> is the plug-in identifier, for example,
              <codeph>com.example.ant</codeph>.</li>
            <li><varname>wrapper-file</varname> is the wrapper file that imports the Ant project file.</li>
          </ul></stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install the plug-in.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>The imports from wrapper file are copied into the <filepath>build.xml</filepath> file, using the correct path.
        This makes the new Ant targets available to other processes.</p>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
