<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="plugin-newtranstype" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Adding a new transformation type</title>
  <shortdesc>Plug-ins can add an entirely new transformation type. The new transformation type can be very simple,
    such as an XHTML build that creates an additional control file; it also can be very complex, adding any number of
    new processing steps.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <context>
      <p>You can use the <codeph>dita.conductor.transtype.check</codeph> and <codeph>dita.transtype.print</codeph>
        extension points to define new transformation types.</p>
      <p>When a transformation type is defined, the build expects Ant code to be integrated to define the transformation
        process. The Ant code must define a target based on the name of the transformation type; if the transformation
        type is "new-transform", the Ant code must define a target named <parmname>dita2new-transform</parmname>.</p>
    </context>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create an Ant project file for the new transformation. This project file must define a target named
            "dita2<varname>new-transtype</varname>," where <varname>new-transtype</varname> is the name of the new
          transformation type. </cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create the following feature:</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock>&lt;plugin id="<varname>plugin-id </varname>">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.transtype.check" value="<varname>new-transtype</varname>"/>
  <b>&lt;feature extension="dita.transtype.print" value="<varname>new-transtype</varname>"/></b>
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.target.relative" file="<varname>ant-file</varname>"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
          <p>where:</p>
          <ul>
            <li><varname>plugin-id </varname> is the plug-in identifier, for example, com.dita-ot.pdf.</li>
            <li><varname>new-transtype</varname> is the name of the new transformation, for example, dita-ot-pdf.</li>
            <li><varname>ant-file</varname> is the name of the Ant file, for example,
                <filepath>build-dita-ot-pdf.xml</filepath>.</li>
          </ul>
          <p>Exclude the content that is highlighted in bold if the transformation is not intended for print.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install the plug-in.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>You now can use the new transformation.</result>
    <example>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>The following <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file defines a new transformation type named "newtext"; it also
        defines the transformation type to be a print type. The build will look for a <parmname>dita2newtext</parmname>
        target.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;plugin id="com.example.newtext">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.transtype.check" value="newtext"/>
  &lt;feature extension="dita.transtype.print" value="newtext"/>
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.target.relative" file="build-newtext.xml"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
      <p>While the <filepath>org.dita.html5</filepath> plug-in was separated from <codeph>common-html</codeph> in version 2.4,
          the following example shows how earlier versions of that plug-in used the
          <xmlelement>transtype</xmlelement> element to extend the common HTML transformation with a new
          <option>html5</option> transformation type and define a new <parmname>nav-toc</parmname> parameter with three
        possible values:</p>
      <codeblock><b>&lt;transtype name="html5" extends="common-html" desc="HTML5"></b>
  &lt;param name="nav-toc" type="enum" 
         desc="Specifies whether to generate a navigation TOC in topic pages.">
    &lt;val default="true" desc="No TOC">none&lt;/val>
    &lt;val desc="Partial TOC that shows the current topic">partial&lt;/val>
    &lt;val desc="Full TOC">full&lt;/val>
  &lt;/param>
&lt;/transtype></codeblock>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="20 February 2016">
        <p>I think the above example belongs elsewhere. It does not illustrate using an extension point.</p>
      </draft-comment>
    </example>
  </taskbody>
</task>
