<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="plugin-overridestyle" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Override styles with XSLT</title>
  <shortdesc>The XSLT import extension points are used to override various steps of XSLT processing. For this, the
    extension attribute indicates the step that the override applies to; the <codeph>file</codeph> attribute is a
    relative path to the override within the current plugin. The plugin installer will add an XSL import statement to
    the default code so that your override becomes a part of the normal build.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>The following XSLT steps are available to override in the core toolkit: </p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.xhtml</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides default (X)HTML output (including HTML Help and Eclipse Help). The referenced file is integrated
            directly into the XSLT step that generates XHTML.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.xslfo</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides default PDF output (formerly known as PDF2). The referenced file is integrated directly into the
            XSLT step that generates XSL-FO for PDF.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.docbook</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides default DocBook output.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.rtf</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides default RTF output.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.eclipse.plugin</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the step that generates plugin.xml for Eclipse.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.conref</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the preprocess step that resolves conref.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.topicpull</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the preprocess step "topicpull" (the step that pulls text into &lt;xref> elements, among other
            things).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.mapref</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the preprocess step "mapref" (the step that resolves references to other maps).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.mappull</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the preprocess step "mappull" (the step that updates navtitles in maps and causes attributes to
            cascade).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.maplink</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the preprocess step "maplink" (the step that generates map-based links).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.troff-ast</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the intermediate block-and-phrase format generated as input to troff processing.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.troff</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Overrides the XSL that converts block-and-phrase intermediate markup into troff. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example>
      <title>Example – Overriding XHTML header processing</title>
      <p>The following two files represent a complete, simple style plug-in.</p>
      <p>The <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file declares an XSLT file that extends XHTML processing:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;plugin id="com.example.brandheader">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.xsl.xhtml" file="xsl/header.xsl"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
      <p>The <filepath>xsl/header.xsl</filepath> XSLT file referenced above in <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> overrides
        the default header processing to provide a (theoretical) banner:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;xsl:stylesheet version="1.0" 
                xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform">
  &lt;xsl:template name="gen-user-header">
    &lt;div>&lt;img src="http://www.example.com/company_banner.jpg" 
              alt="Example Company Banner"/>&lt;/div>
  &lt;/xsl:template>
&lt;/xsl:stylesheet></codeblock>
    </example>
    <example>
      <title>Example – Overriding troff formatting</title>
      <p>To apply custom formatting for your own domain to the intermediate markup generated as input to troff
        processing, create a plugin that extends <codeph>dita.xsl.troff-ast</codeph> and specify the path to your custom
        XSL as follows:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;feature extension="dita.xsl.troff-ast" file="xsl/your-domain.xsl"/></codeblock>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
