<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="plugin-extension-points-pre-processing">
  <title>Pre-processing extension points</title>
  <shortdesc>You can use these extension points to run an Ant target before or after the pre-processing stage; you
    also run an Ant target before or after a specific step in the pre-processing operation.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note type="tip">For maximum compatibility with future versions of DITA-OT, most plug-ins should use the extension
        points that run before or after pre-processing.</note>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.post</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target after the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <note type="caution">The internal order of preprocessing steps is subject to change between versions of DITA-OT.
        New versions may remove, combine, or add steps to the process, so the following extension points within the
        preprocessing stage should only be used if absolutely necessary.</note>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.chunk.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>chunk</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.coderef.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>coderef</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.conref.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>conref</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.conrefpush.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>conrefpush</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.clean-temp.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>clean-temp</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-files.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>copy-files</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-flag.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>copy-flag</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-generated-files.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>copy-generated-files</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-html.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>copy-html</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-image.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>copy-image</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.copy-subsidiary.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>copy-subsidiary</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.debug-filter.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>debug-filter</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.gen-list.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>gen-list</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.keyref.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>keyref</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.maplink.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>maplink</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.mappull.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>mappull</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.mapref.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>mapref</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.move-links.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>move-links</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.move-meta-entries.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>move-meta-entries</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><parmname>depend.preprocess.topicpull.pre</parmname></dt>
          <dd>Runs an Ant target before the <codeph>topicpull</codeph> step in the pre-processing stage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
