<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<task id="plugin-javalib" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Adding a Java library to the DITA-OT <parmname>classpath</parmname> parameter</title>
  <shortdesc>You can use the <codeph>dita.conductor.lib.import</codeph> extension point to add an additional Java
    library to the DITA-OT <parmname>classpath</parmname> parameter.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>If necessary, compile the Java code into a JAR file.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file that contains the following code:</cmd>
        <info><codeblock>&lt;plugin id="<varname>plugin-id</varname>">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.lib.import" file="<varname>file</varname>"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>where:<ul>
            <li><varname>plugin-id</varname> is the plug-in identifier, for example, com.example.addjar.</li>
            <li><varname>file</varname> is the name of the JAR file, for example,
              <filepath>myJavaLibrary.jar</filepath>. </li>
          </ul></info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install the plug-in.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>The Ant or XSLT code now can make use of the Java code.</result>
    <example>
      <p>In the following extended example, the <filepath>myJavaLibrary.jar</filepath> file performs a validation step
        during processing, and you want it to run immediately before the <codeph>conref </codeph>step. To accomplish
        this, you will need to use several features:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The JAR file must be added to the classpath.</li>
        <li>The Ant target must be added to the dependency chain for conref.</li>
        <li>An Ant target must be created that uses this class, and the Ant wrapper integrated into the code.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The files might look like the following:</p>
      <fig>
        <title><filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;plugin id="com.example.samplejava">
  &lt;!-- Add the JAR file to the DITA-OT CLASSPATH -->
  <b>&lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.lib.import" file="com.example.sampleValidation.jar"/></b>
  &lt;!-- Integrate the Ant code -->
  &lt;feature extension="dita.conductor.target.relative" file="antWrapper.xml"/>
  &lt;!-- Define the Ant target that is called, and the location (before conref) -->
  &lt;feature extension="depend.preprocess.conref.pre" value="validateWithJava"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title><filepath>antWrapper.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;dummy>
  &lt;import file="calljava-antcode.xml"/>
&lt;/dummy></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title><filepath>calljava-antcode.xml</filepath> file</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;project default="validateWithJava">
  &lt;target name="validateWithJava">
    &lt;java classname="com.example.sampleValidation">
      &lt;!-- The class was added to dost.class.path (the DITA-OT classpath) -->
      &lt;classpath refid="dost.class.path"/>
    &lt;/java>
  &lt;/target>
&lt;/project></codeblock>
      </fig>
    </example>
  </taskbody>
</task>
