<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<reference id="plugin-configfile" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Plug-in descriptor file</title>
  <shortdesc>The plug-in descriptor file (<filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>) controls all aspects of a plug-in, making
    each extension visible to the rest of the toolkit. The file uses pre-defined extension points to locate changes, and
    then integrates those changes into the core DITA-OT code.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Plug-in identifiers</title>
      <p>Every DITA-OT plug-in must have a unique identifier composed of one or more dot-delimited tokens, for example,
          <codeph>com.example.rss</codeph>. This identifier is used to identify the plug-in to the DITA-OT for
        installation, processing, and when determining plug-in dependencies.</p>
      <note>The default DITA-OT plug-ins use a reverse domain naming convention, as in <codeph>org.dita.html5</codeph>;
        this is strongly recommended to avoid plug-in naming conflicts.</note>
      <p id="tokendef">Each token can include only the following characters:
        <ul>
          <li>Lower-case letters (a-z)</li>
          <li>Upper-case letters (A-Z)</li>
          <li>Numerals (0-9)</li>
          <li>Underscores (_)</li>
          <li>Hyphens (-)</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><xmlelement>plugin</xmlelement></title>
      <p>The root element of the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file is <xmlelement>plugin</xmlelement>, which has a
        required <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute set to the unique plug-in identifier.</p>
      <!--<codeblock>id    ::= token('.'token)*
token ::= ( [0..9] | [a..zA..Z] | ’_’ | ’-’ )+</codeblock>-->
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Plug-in elements</title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="13 May 2013">Perhaps all the following tables should have a Data
        type column? That would match with the DITA spec; also, it seems as if some attributes must take a predefined
        set of values.</draft-comment>
      <p>The <xmlelement>plugin</xmlelement> element can contain the following child elements: </p>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt><xmlelement>extension-point</xmlelement></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>An optional element that defines a new extension point that can be used by other DITA-OT plug-ins.</p>
            <p>The following attributes are supported:</p>
            <simpletable keycol="1">
              <sthead>
                <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>Description</stentry>
                <stentry>Required?</stentry>
              </sthead>
              <strow>
                <stentry>id</stentry>
                <stentry>Extension point identifier</stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>name</stentry>
                <stentry>Extension point description</stentry>
                <stentry>No</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable>
            <p id="extension-point-ids">Like plug-in identifiers, extension point identifiers are composed of one or
              more dot-delimited tokens.</p>
            <note id="entension-point-ids-note">Extension point identifiers should begin with the identifier of the
              defining plug-in and append one or more tokens, for example, <codeph>org.dita.example.pre</codeph>.</note>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt><xmlelement>feature</xmlelement></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>An optional element that supplies values to a DITA-OT extension point.</p>
            <p>The following attributes are supported:</p>
            <simpletable keycol="1">
              <sthead>
                <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>Description</stentry>
                <stentry>Required?</stentry>
              </sthead>
              <strow>
                <stentry>extension</stentry>
                <stentry>Identifier of the DITA-OT extension point</stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>value</stentry>
                <stentry>Comma separated string value of the extension</stentry>
                <stentry>Either the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>file</xmlatt> attribute must be
                  specified</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>file</stentry>
                <stentry>Name and path of a file containing data for the extension point.
                  <p>Depending on the extension point, this might be specified as an absolute path, a path relative to
                    the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file, or a path relative to the DITA-OT root.</p></stentry>
                <stentry>Either the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>file</xmlatt> attribute must be
                  specified</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>type</stentry>
                <stentry>Type of the <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>No</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable>
            <p>If more than one <xmlelement>feature</xmlelement> element supplies values to the same extension point,
              the values are additive. For example, the following are
              equivalent:<codeblock>&lt;feature extension="org.dita.example.extension-point" value="a,b,c"/></codeblock><codeblock>&lt;feature extension="org.dita.example.extension-point" value="a"/>
&lt;feature extension="org.dita.example.extension-point" value="b"/>
&lt;feature extension="org.dita.example.extension-point" value="c"/></codeblock></p>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt><xmlelement>meta</xmlelement></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>An optional element that defines metadata.</p>
            <p>The following attributes are supported:</p>
            <simpletable keycol="1">
              <sthead>
                <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>Description</stentry>
                <stentry>Required?</stentry>
              </sthead>
              <strow>
                <stentry>type</stentry>
                <stentry>Metadata name </stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>value</stentry>
                <stentry>Metadata value</stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt><xmlelement>require</xmlelement></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>An optional element that defines plug-in dependencies.</p>
            <p>The following attributes are supported:</p>
            <simpletable keycol="1">
              <sthead>
                <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>Description</stentry>
                <stentry>Required?</stentry>
              </sthead>
              <strow>
                <stentry>plugin</stentry>
                <stentry>The identifier of the required plug-in.
                  <p>To specify alternative requirements, separate plug-in identifiers with a vertical
                  bar.</p></stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>importance</stentry>
                <stentry>Identifies whether the plug-in is <codeph>required</codeph> (default) or
                    <codeph>optional</codeph>. The DITA-OT provides a warning if a required plug-in is not
                  available.</stentry>
                <stentry>No</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt><xmlelement>template</xmlelement></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>An optional element that defines files that should be treated as templates.</p>
            <p>Template files can be used to integrate DITA-OT extensions. Templates typically extend the default
              transformation-type-specific build files via <xmlelement>dita:extension</xmlelement> elements. When the
              plug-in installation process runs, template files are used to recreate build files, and the specified
              extension points are replaced with references to the appropriate plug-ins.</p>
            <p>The following attributes are supported: </p>
            <simpletable keycol="1">
              <sthead>
                <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>Description</stentry>
                <stentry>Required?</stentry>
              </sthead>
              <strow>
                <stentry>file</stentry>
                <stentry>Name and path to the template file, relative to the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>
                  file</stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
        <plentry>
          <pt><xmlelement>transtype</xmlelement></pt>
          <pd>
            <p>An optional element that defines a new output format (transformation type).</p>
            <p>The following attributes are supported:</p>
            <simpletable keycol="1">
              <sthead>
                <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                <stentry>Description</stentry>
                <stentry>Required?</stentry>
              </sthead>
              <strow>
                <stentry>name</stentry>
                <stentry>Transformation name</stentry>
                <stentry>Yes</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>desc</stentry>
                <stentry>Transformation type description</stentry>
                <stentry>No</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>abstract</stentry>
                <stentry>When <option>true</option>, sets the transformation type as <q>abstract</q>, meaning it can be
                  extended by other plug-ins, but cannot be used directly.
                  <p>For example, the <codeph>org.dita.base</codeph> plug-in defines an abstract <q>base</q>
                    transformation type that is extended by other DITA-OT plug-ins.</p></stentry>
                <stentry>No</stentry>
              </strow>
              <strow>
                <stentry>extends</stentry>
                <stentry>Specifies the name of the transformation type being extended</stentry>
                <stentry>No</stentry>
              </strow>
            </simpletable>
            <p>The <xmlelement>transtype</xmlelement> element may define additional parameters for the transformation
              type using the following child elements.</p>
            <parml>
              <plentry>
                <pt><xmlelement>param</xmlelement></pt>
                <pd>An optional element that specifies a parameter for the transformation type.
                  <p>The following parameter attributes are supported:</p><simpletable keycol="1">
                    <sthead>
                      <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                      <stentry>Description</stentry>
                      <stentry>Required?</stentry>
                    </sthead>
                    <strow>
                      <stentry>name</stentry>
                      <stentry>Parameter name</stentry>
                      <stentry>Yes</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                      <stentry>desc</stentry>
                      <stentry>Parameter description</stentry>
                      <stentry>No</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                      <stentry>type</stentry>
                      <stentry>Parameter type (<option>enum</option>, <option>file</option>,
                        <option>string</option>)</stentry>
                      <stentry>Yes</stentry>
                    </strow>
                  </simpletable></pd>
              </plentry>
              <plentry>
                <pt><xmlelement>val</xmlelement></pt>
                <pd>A child of <xmlelement>param</xmlelement> (when <xmlatt>type</xmlatt>=<option>enum</option>) that
                  specifies an enumeration value.
                  <p>The following attributes are supported:</p><simpletable keycol="1">
                    <sthead>
                      <stentry>Attribute</stentry>
                      <stentry>Description</stentry>
                      <stentry>Required?</stentry>
                    </sthead>
                    <strow>
                      <stentry>default</stentry>
                      <stentry>When <option>true</option>, sets the enumeration value as the default value of the parent
                          <xmlelement>param</xmlelement></stentry>
                      <stentry>Only for the default <xmlelement>val</xmlelement></stentry>
                    </strow>
                  </simpletable></pd>
              </plentry>
            </parml>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>
      <p>Any extension that is not recognized by the DITA-OT is ignored. Since DITA-OT version 1.5.3, you can combine
        multiple extension definitions within a single <filepath>plug-in.xml</filepath> file; in older versions, only
        the last extension definition was used. </p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
