<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="plugin-messages" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Adding diagnostic messages</title>
  <shortdesc>Plug-in specific warning and error messages can be added to the set of messages supplied by the DITA-OT.
    These messages can then be used by any XSLT override.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><codeph>dita.xsl.messages</codeph></dt>
          <dd>Add new messages to diagnostic message file.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <example>
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>To add your own messages, create the new messages in an XML file such as
        <filepath>myMessages.xml</filepath>:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;dummy>
  &lt;!-- See resources/messages.xml for the details. -->
  &lt;message id="DOTXmy-msg-numW" type="WARN">
    &lt;reason>Message text&lt;/reason>
    &lt;response>How to resolve&lt;/response>
  &lt;/message>
&lt;/dummy></codeblock>
      <p>There are three components to the message ID:<ol>
          <li>The prefix DOTX is used by all DITA-OT XSLT transforms, and must be part of the ID.</li>
          <li>This is followed by the message number ("my-msg-num" in the sample above). By convention, this should be a
            three digit integer.</li>
          <li>Finally, a letter corresponds to the severity. This should be one of:<ul>
              <li>I = Informational, used with type="INFO"</li>
              <li>W = Warning, used with type="WARN"</li>
              <li>E = Error, used with type="ERROR"</li>
              <li>F = Fatal, used with type="FATAL"</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>Once the message file is defined, it is incorporated with this extension:
        </p><codeblock>&lt;plugin id="com.example.newmsg">
  &lt;feature extension="dita.xsl.messages" file="myMessages.xml"/>
&lt;/plugin></codeblock><p>XSLT
        modules can then generate the message using the following call: </p>
      <codeblock>&lt;xsl:call-template name="output-message">
  &lt;xsl:with-param name="msgnum">my-msg-num&lt;/xsl:with-param>
  &lt;xsl:with-param name="msgsev">W&lt;/xsl:with-param>
&lt;/xsl:call-template>
</codeblock></example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
