<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="resources-for-pdf-customization-plug-ins">
  <title>Resources for PDF customization plug-ins</title>
  <shortdesc>There are several resources external to the DITA Open Toolkit (DITA-OT) that can help you generate and
    refine PDF customization plug-ins.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>PDF Plugin Generator</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>This online tool, developed and maintained by Jarno Elovirta, enables you to generate a PDF customization
              plug-in automatically.</p>
            <p>You can:</p>
            <ul>
              <li>Define the target environment, selecting from the most current and two previous versions of the
                DITA-OT</li>
              <li>Select the XSL formatting engine (FOP, Antenna House Formatter, or RenderX XEP)</li>
              <li>Specify page size, columns, and margins</li>
              <li>Select from (limited) options for headers and footers</li>
              <li>Specify layout options for chapters</li>
              <li>Select formatting for the following publication components:<ul>
                  <li>Normal text</li>
                  <li>Headings (levels one through four)</li>
                  <li>Titles for sections and examples</li>
                  <li>Tables and figures</li>
                  <li>Notes and examples</li>
                  <li>Lists (unordered, ordered, and definition)</li>
                  <li>Code blocks and pre-formatted text</li>
                  <li>Inline elements such as links and trademarks</li>
                </ul><draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="13 February 2016">
                  <p>Given the technical level of our audience here, should we list DITA elements rather than the
                    generic categories?</p>
                </draft-comment>
                <p>For each component, you can specify: </p><ul>
                  <li>Font family, size, weight, and style</li>
                  <li>Color and background color</li>
                  <li>Alignment, indentation, spacing, and padding</li>
                </ul></li>
            </ul>
            <p>The PDF Plugin Generator should be your first stop as you start developing a brand-new PDF customization
              plug-in.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cite>DITA for Print: A DITA Open Toolkit Workbook</cite> (2013)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Authored by Leigh W. White, DITA Specialist at IXIASOFT, and published by XML Press, walks readers
              through developing a PDF customization from scratch. Here is an excerpt from the back cover:</p>
            <lq><cite>DITA for Print</cite> is for everyone who want to learn how to create PDFs using the DITA Open
              Toolkit without learning everything that there is to know about XSL-FO, XSLT, or XPath, or even about the
              DITA Open Toolkit itself. <cite>DITA for Print</cite> is written for non-programmers, by a non-programmer,
              and although it is written for people who have a good understanding of the DITA standard, you don't need a
              technical background to get custom PDFs up and running quickly.</lq>
            <p>This is an excellent, long-needed resource that was developed for DITA-OT 1.8.</p>
            <note>
              <p>The DITA-OT team wants to issue one note of warning.</p>
              <p>Leigh W. White recommends copying entire files from the PDF2 plug-in to your customization directories.
                We do not recommend this practice. Instead, be sure to override only the specific templates that you
                want to modify. Following this practice will more cleanly isolate your customizations from the DITA-OT
                code, which will make it easier for you to update your plug-ins to work with future versions of the
                DITA-OT.</p>
            </note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cite>DITA for Practitioners: Volume 1, Architecture and Technology</cite> (2012)</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Authored by Eliot Kimber and published by XML Press, this seminal resource contains a chapter dedicated
              to the DITA Open Toolkit: "Running, Configuring, and Customizing the Open Toolkit". In addition to a
              robust overview of DITA-OT customization and extension, the chapter contains a detailed example of
              customizing a PDF plug-in to specify 7"x10'' paper size and custom fonts for body text and headers.</p>
            <p>The DITA-OT chapter in <cite>DITA for Practitioners: Volume 1</cite> was written for DITA-OT 1.5.4, which
              was the latest stable version at the time it was written.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
