<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<concept id="ID">
  <title>Re-usable components</title>
  <shortdesc>Warehouse topic used to store re-usable content for concept topics or other constructs that would not be
    valid in the existing warehouse task <filepath>conref-task.dita</filepath>.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><!-- This file contains reusable content. Index entries are in each <section>.  --></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section id="use-xslt2">
      <title>Upgrade stylesheets to XSLT 2.0</title>
      <indexterm>upgrading</indexterm>
      <indexterm>Saxon</indexterm>
      <indexterm>XSLT
        <indexterm>1.0</indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>XSLT
        <indexterm>2.0</indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>plug-ins
        <indexterm>upgrading</indexterm></indexterm>
      <p>The Saxon project has announced plans to remove XSLT 1.0 support from the Saxon-HE library that ships with
        DITA-OT:</p>
      <lq href="https://www.xml.com/news/release-saxon-98/" format="html" scope="external">…we’re dropping XSLT 1.0
        backwards compatibility mode from Saxon-HE, and hope to eliminate it entirely in due course.</lq>
      <p>DITA-OT 3.0 and 3.0.1 included Saxon-HE 9.8.0.5, which rejects XSLT stylesheets that specify
          <codeph>version="1.0"</codeph>. Plug-ins with XSLT templates specifying version 1.0 will fail with the message
          “<msgph>XSLT 1.0 compatibility mode is not available in this configuration</msgph>.”</p>
      <p>To resolve this issue, change any occurrences of <codeph>&lt;xsl:stylesheet version="1.0"></codeph> in custom
        plug-in stylesheets to at least <codeph>&lt;xsl:stylesheet version="2.0"></codeph>.</p>
      <note type="tip">DITA-OT 3.0.2 includes Saxon-HE 9.8.0.7, which restores XSLT 1.0 backwards-compatibility mode,
        but the DITA Open Toolkit project recommends upgrading all stylesheets to XSLT 2.0 to ensure plug-ins remain
        compatible with future versions of DITA-OT and Saxon-HE.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="validating-plugins">
      <title>Validating plug-ins</title>
      <div id="plugin.rnc">
        <p>DITA-OT includes a RELAX NG schema file that can be used to validate the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath>
          files that define the capabilities of each plug-in.
          <indexterm>schema
            <indexterm>RELAX NG</indexterm></indexterm>
          <indexterm>validate</indexterm>
        </p>
        <p>To ensure the syntax of your custom plug-in is correct, include an <xmlpi>xml-model</xmlpi> processing
          instruction at the beginning of the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file, immediately after the XML
          prolog:</p>
        <p><xmlpi
          >xml-model href="https://www.dita-ot.org/rng/plugin.rnc" type="application/relax-ng-compact-syntax"</xmlpi></p>
        <p>If your authoring environment does not apply this schema automatically, point your editor to <filepath
            id="samples-dir"
          ><varname>dita-ot-dir</varname>/resources/plugin.rnc</filepath> to associate the schema with
          your plug-in file.</p>
      </div>
    </section>

    <section id="dita-for-print">
      <title><cite>DITA for Print: A DITA Open Toolkit Workbook</cite> (Second Edition, 2017)</title>
      <indexterm>Leigh White</indexterm>
      <indexterm>DITA for Print</indexterm>
      <p>Authored by Leigh W. White, DITA Specialist at IXIASOFT, and published by XML Press, <cite>DITA for
          Print</cite> walks readers through developing a PDF customization from scratch. </p>
      <p>Here is an excerpt from the back cover:</p>
      <lq><cite>DITA for Print</cite> is for anyone who wants to learn how to create PDFs using the DITA Open Toolkit
        without learning everything there is to know about XSL-FO, XSLT, or XPath, or even about the DITA Open Toolkit
        itself. <cite>DITA for Print</cite> is written for non-programmers, by a non-programmer, and although it is
        written for people who have a good understanding of the DITA standard, you don’t need a technical background to
        get custom PDFs up and running quickly.</lq>
      <p>This is an excellent, long-needed resource that was initially developed in 2013 for DITA-OT 1.8.</p>
      <p>The second edition has been revised to cover DITA Open Toolkit Version 2, including customizing the DITA 1.3
        troubleshooting topic type, localization strings, bookmarks, and the new back-cover functionality.</p>
      <note type="important">
        <p>The first edition of <cite>DITA for Print</cite> recommended copying entire files from the PDF2 plug-in to
          your custom plug-in. The DITA-OT project — and the second edition of the book — do not recommend this
          practice.</p>
        <p>Instead, you should copy only the specific attribute sets and templates that you want to override. Following
          this practice will more cleanly isolate your customizations from the DITA-OT code, which will make it easier
          for you to update your plug-ins to work with future versions of DITA-OT.</p></note>
    </section>

    <section id="dita-for-practitioners">
      <title><cite>DITA for Practitioners: Volume 1, Architecture and Technology</cite> (2012)</title>
      <indexterm>Eliot Kimber</indexterm>
      <indexterm>DITA for Practitioners: Volume 1, Architecture and Technology</indexterm>
      <p>Authored by Eliot Kimber and published by XML Press, this seminal resource contains a chapter dedicated to DITA
        Open Toolkit: “Running, Configuring, and Customizing the Open Toolkit”. In addition to a robust overview of
        DITA-OT customization and extension, the chapter contains a detailed example of customizing a PDF plug-in to
        specify 7" × 10" paper size and custom fonts for body text and headers.</p>
      <p>The DITA-OT chapter in <cite>DITA for Practitioners: Volume 1</cite> was written for DITA-OT 1.5.4, which was
        the latest stable version at the time it was written.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="java">
      <title>Supported Java versions</title>
      <p id="java-clients">DITA-OT is designed to run on Java version <keyword keyref="tool.java.version"/> or later and
        built and tested with the Open Java Development Kit (OpenJDK). Compatible Java distributions are available from
        multiple sources:
        <indexterm>Java
          <indexterm>versions</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Amazon Corretto</indexterm>
        <indexterm>OpenJDK</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Oracle JDK</indexterm>
        <ul>
          <li>You can download the Oracle JRE or JDK from
            <xref keyref="download.oracle-jdk"/> under commercial license.</li>
          <li>Eclipse Temurin is the free OpenJDK distribution available from
            <xref keyref="download.openjdk"/>.</li>
          <li>Free OpenJDK distributions are also provided by
            <xref keyref="download.openjdk.corretto"/>,
            <xref keyref="download.openjdk.azul"/>, and
            <xref keyref="download.openjdk.redhat"/>.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="preprocess2">
      <title>Limitations of map-first pre-processing</title>
      <p id="no-internal-preprocess2-ext">The internal extension points that run before or after individual steps in the
        original <codeph>preprocess</codeph> pipeline (<codeph>preprocess.*.pre/preprocess.*.post</codeph>) are not
        available in the newer map-first preprocessing pipeline (<codeph>preprocess2</codeph>), which is used in the PDF
        and HTML Help transformations as of DITA-OT 3.0.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="legacy-plugins">
      <title>Unbundled plug-ins</title>
      <note id="legacy-plugins-note">If necessary, legacy plug-ins may be re-installed from earlier DITA-OT
        distributions, but they are no longer actively maintained or supported by the core toolkit committers. The
        source code is available on GitHub for anyone interested in maintaining the plug-ins for use with future toolkit
        versions.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="subcommands">
      <title>New subcommands in 3.5</title>
      <dl id="3.5-subcommands">
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cmdname>dita deliverables</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Prints the list of deliverables in a project <varname>file</varname></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="install-subcommand">
          <dt><cmdname>dita install</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Installs or reloads plug-ins (replaces <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <parmname>--install</parmname>)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cmdname>dita plugins</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Prints a list of installed plug-ins (replaces <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <parmname>--plugins</parmname>)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cmdname>dita transtypes</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Prints a list of installed transformation types, or <i>output formats</i> (replaces
              <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <parmname>--transtypes</parmname>)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cmdname>dita uninstall</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Removes and deletes a plug-in (replaces <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <parmname>--uninstall</parmname>)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="version-subcommand">
          <dt><cmdname>dita version</cmdname></dt>
          <dd>Prints version information and exits (replaces <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <parmname>--version</parmname>)</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>

    <section id="dita-ot-migration-tip">
      <title>Recommendations for upgrading DITA-OT customizations</title>
      <p id="migration-recommendation">When migrating customizations, identify the version of the toolkit you're
        currently using (base version) and the version of the toolkit you want to migrate to (target version). Then,
        review all of the migration changes described in <i>all</i> of the versions from the base through the target.
        For instance, if you're currently on 2.2 and want to move to 3.3, you should review all of the changes in 2.3
        through 3.3. You may want to start at the oldest version and read forward so you can chronologically follow the
        changes, since it is possible that files or topics have had multiple changes. </p>
    </section>

    <section id="strings-format">
      <title>Common format for generated text</title>
      <div id="gentext-string-structure">
        <p>Prior to DITA-OT 3.7, there were two different XML structures for adding or modifying generated text
          (gentext). The base plug-in <b>org.dita.base</b> and any custom overrides defined via the 
          <parmname>dita.strings.xsl</parmname> extension point used a root element <xmlelement>strings</xmlelement>,
          with individual strings in <xmlelement>str</xmlelement> elements with <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attributes. This
          format was previously used for HTML, and all other output formats except PDF.</p>
        <fig>
          <title>Base strings file structure prior to DITA-OT 3.7</title>
          <codeblock
            outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
          >&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
&lt;strings xml:lang="en-US">
  &lt;str name="String1">English generated text&lt;/str>
&lt;/strings></codeblock>
        </fig>
        <p>The PDF plug-in <b>org.dita.pdf2</b> used a root element <xmlelement>vars</xmlelement> with an XML namespace,
          and strings in <xmlelement>variable</xmlelement> elements with <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
        <fig>
          <title>PDF2 strings file structure prior to DITA-OT 3.7</title>
          <codeblock
            outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
          >&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;vars xmlns="http://www.idiominc.com/opentopic/vars">
  &lt;variable id="String1">English generated text&lt;/variable>
&lt;/vars></codeblock>
        </fig>
        <p>Starting with DITA-OT 3.7, these structures have been deprecated and replaced with a new unified format. All
          files now use <xmlelement>variables</xmlelement> as the root element, with the
            <xmlelement>variable</xmlelement> elements previously used in PDF strings. The new format supports the XSL
          parameters used by the earlier PDF strings format to pass dynamic information such as chapter numbers or
          figure titles.</p>
        <fig>
          <title>New common variable format as of DITA-OT 3.7</title>
          <codeblock
            outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
          >&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;variables>
  &lt;variable id="String1">English generated text&lt;/variable>
&lt;/variables></codeblock>
        </fig>
        <p>The old formats are still supported, but plug-in developers should update any generated text files to reflect
          the new structure, as support for the old formats may be removed in a future release.
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3817" format="html" scope="external">#3817</xref>
        </p>
      </div>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
