<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<task id="installing-via-homebrew">
  <title>Installing DITA-OT via Homebrew</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Installing via Homebrew</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>An alternative installation method can be used to install DITA-OT via
    <xref keyref="homebrew"/>, one of the most popular open-source package managers on macOS and Linux.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>macOS</indexterm>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command
          <indexterm>Homebrew</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>installing
          <indexterm>Homebrew</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>The steps below assume you have already installed
        <xref keyref="homebrew"/> according to the instructions at
        <xref keyref="homebrew">brew.sh</xref>.</p>
      <note type="tip">Verify that your
        <xref keyref="PATH"/> begins with the <filepath>bin</filepath> subfolder of the Homebrew installation directory
        <fn>Homebrew’s default installation location depends on the operating system architecture:
          <ul>
            <li><filepath>/usr/local</filepath> on macOS Intel</li>
            <li><filepath>/opt/homebrew</filepath> on macOS ARM</li>
            <li><filepath>/home/linuxbrew/.linuxbrew</filepath> on Linux</li>
          </ul>
        </fn> to ensure that Homebrew-installed software
        takes precedence over any programs of the same name elsewhere on the system.</note>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Update Homebrew to make sure the latest package formulas are available on your system:</cmd>
        <stepxmp><codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash">$ <cmdname>brew update</cmdname>
Already up-to-date.</codeblock></stepxmp>
        <stepresult>
          <p>Homebrew responds with a list of any new or updated formulæ.</p></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>Check the version of DITA-OT that is available from Homebrew:</cmd>
        <stepxmp><codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash">$ <cmdname>brew info dita-ot</cmdname>
<systemoutput>dita-ot: stable <keyword keyref="maintenance-version"/>
DITA Open Toolkit is an implementation of the OASIS DITA specification
https://www.dita-ot.org/
/usr/local/Cellar/dita-ot/<keyword keyref="maintenance-version"/> (<varname>number of files</varname>, <varname
              >package size</varname>) *
  Built from source on <varname>YYYY-MM-DD</varname> at <varname>hh:mm:ss</varname>
From: https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/blob/master/Formula/dita-ot.rb
==> Requirements
Required: java >= 1.8 ✔</systemoutput>
</codeblock></stepxmp>
        <stepresult>
          <p>The version of the DITA-OT formula is shown, along with basic information on the package.</p></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install the <codeph>dita-ot</codeph> package:</cmd>
        <stepxmp><codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash">$ <cmdname>brew install dita-ot</cmdname>
<systemoutput>Downloading…</systemoutput></codeblock></stepxmp>
        <stepresult>
          <p>Homebrew will automatically download the latest version of the toolkit, install it in a subfolder of the
            local package Cellar and symlink the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command to the <filepath>bin</filepath>
            subfolder of the Homebrew installation directory.</p>
        </stepresult>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>Verify the installation:</cmd>
        <stepxmp><codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash">$ <cmdname>which dita</cmdname>
<systemoutput>/usr/local/bin/dita</systemoutput></codeblock></stepxmp>
        <stepresult>
          <p>The response confirms that the system will use the Homebrew-installed version of DITA-OT.</p></stepresult>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>Check the DITA-OT version number:</cmd>
        <stepxmp><codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash">$ <cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--version</parmname>
<systemoutput>DITA-OT version <keyword keyref="maintenance-version"/></systemoutput></codeblock></stepxmp>
        <stepresult>The DITA-OT version number appears on the console.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>You can now run the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command to transform DITA content.</p></result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
