<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<concept id="loghandling">
  <title>Logging build information</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Logging</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>When you run DITA-OT, key information is logged on the screen. This information can also be written to a
    log file. If you encounter a problem, you can analyze this information to determine the source of the problem and
    then take action to resolve it.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Apache FOP
          <indexterm>log files</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command
          <indexterm>logging</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>logging</indexterm>
        <indexterm>verbose logging</indexterm>
        <indexterm>Ant
          <indexterm>logging</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>debugging
          <index-see-also>logging</index-see-also></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Java
          <indexterm>logging</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>The logging behavior varies depending on whether you use the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command or Ant to invoke a
      toolkit build.</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>By default, only warning and error messages are written to the screen.</p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <p>For more information, enable verbose logging with <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
                <parmname>--verbose</parmname>.</p>
              <p>Verbose logging prints additional information to the console, including directory settings, effective
                values for Ant properties, input/output files, and informational messages to assist in
                troubleshooting.</p></li>
            <li>
              <p>To enable debug logging, use <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
                <parmname>--debug</parmname>.</p>
              <p>Debug logging prints considerably more additional information. The debug log includes all information
                from the verbose log, plus details on Java classes, additional Ant properties and overrides,
                preprocessing filters, parameters, and stages, and the complete build sequence.</p>
              <note type="attention">Debug logging requires additional resources and can slow down the build process, so
                it should only be enabled when further details are required to diagnose problems.</note>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>To write the log to a file, use <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
                <parmname>--logfile</parmname>=<varname>file</varname> and specify the path to the log file.</p>
              <p>Unless an absolute path is specified, the value will be interpreted relative to the current
                directory.</p></li>
          </ul></dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Ant</dt>
        <dd>By default, status information is written to the screen. If you issue the <parmname>-l</parmname> parameter,
          the build runs silently and the information is written to a log file with the name and location that you
          specified.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <section>
      <title>Using other Ant loggers</title>
      <p>You also can use other Ant loggers; see
        <xref href="https://ant.apache.org/manual/listeners.html" format="html" scope="external">Listeners &amp;
          Loggers</xref> in the Ant documentation for more information.</p>
      <p>For example, you can use the <b>AnsiColorLogger</b> to colorize the messages written on the screen.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>To use a custom Ant logger with the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command, add the logger to the
                <codeph>ANT_ARGS</codeph> environment variable by calling the following command before calling the
                <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command:</p>
            <codeblock
              outputclass="syntax-bash"
            >export ANT_ARGS="-logger org.apache.tools.ant.listener.AnsiColorLogger"</codeblock>
            <p>Now you will get colorized messages when the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command runs.</p>
            <note type="tip">Environment variables can also be set permanently. See
              <xref href="https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.xml" format="html" scope="external">How do I set or
                change the PATH system variable?</xref> for information on how to set the
              <xref keyref="PATH"/>. You can set the <codeph>ANT_ARGS</codeph> environment variable in the same
              way.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Ant</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>If you prefer to launch DITA-OT directly from Ant, you can also add the logger to the
                <codeph>ANT_ARGS</codeph> environment variable, as explained above. You can also set the logger with the
                <codeph>-logger</codeph> parameter when calling Ant.</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash">ant -logger org.apache.tools.ant.listener.AnsiColorLogger</codeblock>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>FOP debug logging</title>
      <indexterm>logback.xml</indexterm>
      <indexterm>classpath
        <indexterm>logging</indexterm></indexterm>
      <p>In PDF processing with <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP, DITA-OT uses the Simple Logging
        Facade for Java (SLF4J) for better control and formatting of FOP log messages. To reduce noise on the console,
        all FOP messages are set to the Info level and hidden by default.</p>
      <p>To enable debug logging, modify the <filepath>config/logback.xml</filepath> file or add your own
          <filepath>logback.xml</filepath> to the classpath with a higher priority to override the default settings. For
        more information, see the
        <xref href="https://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html" format="html" scope="external">Logback
          configuration documentation</xref>.</p>
      <note type="attention">Enabling FOP debug logging will dramatically increase the size of generated log
        files.</note>
    </section>
    <!--<section><title>Analyze messages on the screen</title><p>During the building process, some information or messages
        occur on the screen to tell you about the status, warnings, errors, or fatal errors. You need to analyze the
        messages to solve the problems. <ul>
          <li>If the build succeeded with some warning messages on the screen, it means that there are something
            incorrect within the user input parameters or source DITA files; but you can still get the correct
            output.</li>
          <li>If the build succeeded with some error messages on the screen, it means that there are something incorrect
            within the user input parameters or source DITA files; the output maybe not correct.</li>
          <li>If the build failed with fatal error message on the screen, it means that there are something illegal or
            invalid within the user input parameters or source DITA files; you may get no output, or wrong output.</li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>-->
    <!--<section><title>Analyze messages in the log file</title><p>A log file in plain text format is generated in the log
        directory, which has a name combined with both input file name and transformation type. You can open it and find more
        detailed information, which are helpful for solving problems. You can use the same way introduced above to
        analyze the messages and solve the problems.</p><p>The log directory can be specified by:</p><ul>
        <li>using Ant, with argument <codeph>-logfile=<userinput>log-file</userinput></codeph></li>
        <li>using command-line tool, the parameter <codeph>/logdir:<userinput>log-dir</userinput></codeph>.</li>
      </ul></section>-->
    <!--<section><title>Turn on debug mode</title><p>Under debug mode, diagnostic information, such as: environment
        variables, stack trace, will be logged into the log file. These information can help the user or developer to go
        deep into the problems and find the root cause.</p><p>By default, the debug mode is disabled. To turn on the
        debug mode on, you need to follow the usage below: <ul>
          <li>Append <codeph>-v</codeph> and <codeph>-Dargs.debug=yes</codeph> in Ant command.</li>
          <li>Append <codeph>/d</codeph> or <codeph>/debug</codeph> in command-line tool.</li>
        </ul></p></section>-->
  </conbody>
</concept>
