<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<topic id="markdown-input">
  <title>Markdown content</title>
  <shortdesc>
    <xref keyref="markdown"/> is a lightweight markup language that allows you to write using an easy-to-read plain text
    format and convert to structurally valid markup as necessary.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm>authoring formats
          <indexterm>Markdown</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Markdown</indexterm>
        <indexterm>CommonMark</indexterm>
        <indexterm>converting lightweight formats to DITA</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>In the words of its creators:</p>

    <lq>“The overriding design goal for Markdown’s formatting syntax is to make it as readable as possible. The idea is
      that a Markdown-formatted document should be publishable as-is, as plain text, without looking like it’s been
      marked up with tags or formatting instructions.”</lq>

    <p>DITA Open Toolkit now allows you to use Markdown files directly in topic references and export DITA content as
      Markdown.</p>

    <p>These features enable lightweight authoring scenarios that allow subject matter experts to contribute to DITA
      publications without writing in XML, and support publishing workflows that include DITA content in Markdown-based
      publishing systems.</p>

    <section>
      <title>Adding Markdown topics</title>
      <p>To add a Markdown topic to a DITA publication, create a topic reference in your map and set the
          <xmlatt>format</xmlatt> attribute to <codeph>markdown</codeph> so the toolkit will recognize the source file
        as Markdown and convert it to DITA:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
        >&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;topicref href="markdown-dita-topic.md" <b>format="markdown"</b>/>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>The <codeph>markdown</codeph> format uses a relatively lenient document parsing approach to support a wide
        range of content and Markdown syntax constructs.</p>
      <note>The Markdown support is based on
        <xref keyref="commonmark"/>, a strongly defined, highly compatible specification of Markdown.</note>
      <p>When you add Markdown topics to a DITA publication as described above, the content is temporarily converted to
        DITA in the background when generating other output formats like HTML or PDF, but the Markdown source files
        remain unchanged.</p>
      <note type="tip">This approach is recommended in cases where simple content is authored collaboratively over
        multiple versions, as Markdown topics can be edited by a wide range of authors and combined as necessary with
        more complex content maintained in DITA XML.</note>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Converting Markdown to DITA</title>
      <p>In cases where the Markdown input is a one-off contribution, members of the DITA authoring team can use the
        Markdown file as raw material that is easily converted to DITA and enriched with conditional processing
        attributes, conkeyrefs or other more complex semantics that have no equivalent in limited formats like
        Markdown.</p>
      <p>If you prefer to maintain this content in DITA in the future, you can generate DITA output by passing the
          <parmname>--format</parmname>=<option>dita</option> option on the command line.</p>
      <p>This converts all input files (both DITA XML and Markdown) to
        <xref keyref="dita2dita">Normalized DITA</xref>. You can then copy the generated DITA files from the output
        folder to your project and replace references to the Markdown topics with their DITA equivalents.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
