<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="migrating-to-3.6">

  <title>Migrating to release 3.6</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 3.6</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>DITA-OT 3.6 includes <ph id="summary">performance enhancements such as processing in parallel and in
      memory, support for PDF changebars with <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP, and an updated preview
      of features for the latest draft of the upcoming DITA 2.0 standard, including the <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement>
      and <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> elements, and the new emphasis domain</ph>.</shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>This topic provides a summary of changes in DITA-OT 3.6 that may require modifications to custom stylesheets
        or plug-ins. For more information on changes in this release, see the
        <xref keyref="3.6-release-notes"/>.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="parallel-processing">
      <title>Parallel processing</title>
      <indexterm>parallel processing</indexterm>
      <p>Preprocessing module code can now be run in parallel by setting the <parmname>parallel</parmname> parameter to
          <option>true</option>. The performance benefits this option provides depend heavily on the source file set,
        the DITA features used in the project, and the computer doing the processing, but under the right circumstances,
        you may see notable improvements when this option is enabled.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="in-memory-processing">
      <title>In-memory processing</title>
      <indexterm>in-memory processing</indexterm>
      <p>DITA-OT 3.6 introduces a new Store API with preview support for in-memory processing. The Cache Store can be
        activated by setting the <parmname>store-type</parmname> parameter to <option>memory</option>. 
        <ph id="io-bound">In-memory processing provides performance advantages in I/O bound environments such as cloud
          computing platforms, where processing time depends primarily on how long it takes to read and write temporary
          files.</ph> For more information, see
        <xref keyref="store-api"/>.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Caching DITA class instances</title>
      <p>The DITA-OT Java code uses a new caching <codeph>DitaClass.getInstance(cls)</codeph> factory method rather than
        generating <codeph>DitaClass</codeph> instances directly. This allows previously created instances to be
        re-used, which reduces the number of instances that need to be created.</p>
      <note type="important">Custom plug-ins that use the <codeph>DitaClass</codeph> constructor in Java code should be
        updated to use the <codeph>getInstance</codeph> factory method instead.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="fop-changebars">
      <title>PDF changebars with <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> FOP</title>
      <indexterm>Apache FOP
        <indexterm>change bars</indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>PDF
        <indexterm>change bars</indexterm></indexterm>
      <p>For DITA-OT 3.4, the bundled Apache™ Formatting Objects Processor library was upgraded to version 2.4, which
        included support for changebars, but those features were not yet enabled in DITA-OT 3.4 pending further testing.
        DITA-OT 3.6 removes the FOP-specific overrides that disabled changebars in earlier versions, allowing the
        default PDF2 flagging routines to be applied when generating PDFs with FOP. For details, see
        <xref keyref="pdf2-creating-change-bars"/>.</p>
      <p>Plug-ins that implemented custom FOP flagging by overriding the
          <filepath>org.dita.pdf2.fop/xsl/fo/flagging_fop.xsl</filepath> stylesheet in prior versions will need to be
        updated, as this file is no longer available in DITA-OT 3.6.
        <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3511" format="html" scope="external">#3511</xref>,
        <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3591" format="html" scope="external">#3591</xref>
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="no-dublin-core">
      <title>Dublin Core metadata removed from HTML5</title>
      <indexterm>Dublin Core metadata</indexterm>
      <p>Up to version 3.5, DITA-OT included the
        <xref keyref="dublin-core"/> in both XHTML and HTML5 output. DITA-OT 3.6 no longer generates Dublin Core
        metadata in HTML5 output.</p>
      <note type="tip">If necessary, the
        <xref keyref="plugin-dublin-core"/> plug-in can be installed from the plug-in registry at
        <xref keyref="site-plugin-registry"/> to add Dublin Core metadata to HTML5.</note>
      <p>To install the plug-in, run the following command:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash"><cmdname>dita install</cmdname> org.dita.html5.dublin-core</codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="3.6-inline-styles">
      <title>Legacy style attributes moved to CSS</title>
      <indexterm><xmlelement>line-through</xmlelement> styles</indexterm>
      <indexterm><xmlelement>overline</xmlelement> styles</indexterm>
      <p>Remaining inline style attributes were removed from HTML5 code, which prevented custom plug-ins from overriding
        the presentation of the corresponding elements, including:
        <ul>
          <li><line-through><xmlelement>line-through</xmlelement></line-through> and
                <overline><xmlelement>overline</xmlelement></overline> elements</li>
          <li>syntax diagrams</li>
          <li>long quote citations</li>
          <li>Boolean states</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>These changes move the default presentation rules to CSS to allow users to override these styles in custom
        stylesheets. The output is visually equivalent to the results generated by previous toolkit versions. </p>
      <note type="important">In publishing environments that do not use the default common CSS files, these styles may
        need to be implemented in custom stylesheets.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="no-msgprefix">
      <title>XSL variable <codeph>msgprefix</codeph> removed</title>
      <p>The <codeph>msgprefix</codeph> variable (“DOTX”) has been deprecated since DITA-OT 2.3 and is now removed from
        DITA-OT 3.6. For more information, see
        <xref keyref="migrating-to-2.3"/>.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
