<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="migrating-to-4.3">

  <title>Migrating to release 4.3</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>To 4.3</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <shortdesc>DITA-OT 4.3 includes <ph id="summary">new <cmdname>init</cmdname> and <cmdname>validate</cmdname>
      subcommands that can be used to set up projects from a template and check files for errors before publishing. You
      can now publish multiple formats on the command line at once, add raw DITA to Markdown files, and publish bookmaps
      with PDF themes</ph>.</shortdesc>

  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>This topic provides a summary of changes in DITA-OT 4.3 that may require modifications to custom stylesheets
        or plug-ins. For more information on changes in this release, see the
        <xref keyref="4.3-release-notes"/>.</note>
    </section>

    <section id="bookmap-themes">
      <title>Bookmap support in PDF themes</title>
      <p>The PDF theme plug-in <codeph>com.elovirta.pdf</codeph> has been updated to version <keyword
          keyref="tool.theme.version"
        /> for better bookmap support.
        <xref href="https://github.com/jelovirt/pdf-generator/pull/111" format="html" scope="external">#111</xref>
        You can now style the following bookmap elements in a YAML or JSON theme without building a custom PDF plug-in:
        <ul>
          <li><xmlelement>part</xmlelement></li>
          <li><xmlelement>chapter</xmlelement></li>
          <li><xmlelement>appendix</xmlelement></li>
          <li><xmlelement>index</xmlelement></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>Table of contents (ToC) styles have moved to the root <codeph>style</codeph> key. ToC styling has also been
        extended for better bookmap support, so you can now specify styles for each level with dedicated keys such as
          <codeph>style-toc-part</codeph>, <codeph>style-toc-chapter</codeph>, etc.</p>
      <p>Parts and chapters now also support their own local contents listings, which you can enable by setting the
        corresponding layout key, for example <codeph>chapter-layout: MINITOC</codeph>. You can then define styling for
        each level via keys like <codeph>style-part-toc-chapter</codeph>, or <codeph>style-chapter-toc-1</codeph>.</p>
      <p>A new <codeph>default</codeph> theme provides basic styling such as font settings, indentation, and title
        numbering for a range of commonly used elements. This theme is not intended for publishing as is, but can serve
        as a foundation for custom themes, and reduce the number of elements you need to style yourself. To use the
        default theme as the baseline for your own custom theme, add <codeph>extends: default</codeph> to your theme
        file.
        <xref href="https://github.com/jelovirt/pdf-generator/pull/112" format="html" scope="external">#112</xref>,
        <xref href="https://github.com/jelovirt/pdf-generator/pull/114" format="html" scope="external">#114</xref>
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="legacy-samples">
      <title>Legacy sample files removed</title>
      <indexterm><codeph>ant_sample</codeph> class</indexterm>
      <indexterm>Ant samples</indexterm>
      <indexterm>garage samples</indexterm>
      <indexterm>restoring samples</indexterm>
      <indexterm>samples, restoring</indexterm>
      <p id="restoring-samples">The legacy Ant samples and garage sample files have been removed from the
          <filepath>docsrc/samples</filepath> subfolder of the installation directory. If your workflow relies on these
        files, you can restore them to the original location with the new <cmdname>init</cmdname> subcommand:
        <codeblock><filepath conkeyref="conref-task/dita-cmd"/> <cmdname>init</cmdname> samples <filepath><varname
            >path/to/dita-ot-dir</varname>/docsrc/samples</filepath></codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
