<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="concept_gsc_vcf_vs">
  <title>Generating revision bars</title>
  <shortdesc>If you use Antenna House Formatter or RenderX XEP, you can generate revision bars in your PDF output by
    using the <xmlatt>changebar</xmlatt> attribute of the DITAVAL <xmlelement>revprop</xmlelement> element. </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <note>FOP 1.1 does not support the XSL <codeph>fo:change-bar</codeph> formatting object.</note>
    <p>The DITA specification for <xmlatt>changebar</xmlatt> simply says:<lq>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>changebar</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>When flag has been set, specify a changebar color, style, or character, according to the changebar
              support of the target output format. If flag has not been set, this attribute is ignored.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </lq></p>
    <p>The syntax for <xmlatt>changebar</xmlatt> is a sequence of name and value pairs that are delimited by semicolons,
      for example:</p>
    <codeblock>&lt;revprop action="flag" val="rev01"
 <b>changebar="color:black;style:solid;width:0.5pt"</b>
/&gt;</codeblock>
    <p>To produce a revision bar, you must specify a value for <parmname>style</parmname> and should specify a value for
        <parmname>width</parmname> so you get a visible rule.</p>
    <p>Each name and value pair corresponds to an attribute of the <xref keyref="fo-spec.change-bar-begin"/>. The
      following attributes and values are available:</p>
    <parml>
      <plentry>
        <pt>style</pt>
        <pd>The style to use for the line, as for other XSL-FO rules (<xref keyref="fo-spec.change-bar-style"/>). The
          value <option>solid</option> produces a solid rule; the default value is <option>none</option>.</pd>
      </plentry>
      <plentry>
        <pt>color</pt>
        <pd>Any color value recognized by XSL-FO, including the usual color names or a hex color value. The default
          value is <option>black</option>.</pd>
      </plentry>
      <plentry>
        <pt>offset</pt>
        <pd>The space to offset the revision bar from the edge of the text column. You can use points (pt) or
          millimeters (mm).</pd>
      </plentry>
      <plentry>
        <pt>placement</pt>
        <pd>The side of the text column on which to place the revision bar. The allowed values are
            <option>start</option> (left side for left-to-right languages) and <option>end</option> (right side for
          left-to-right languages). The default value is <option>start</option>.</pd>
      </plentry>
      <plentry>
        <pt>width</pt>
        <pd>The width of the rule as a measurement value. Typical values are <option>1pt</option> and
            <option>0.5pt</option>, which renders a hairline rule.</pd>
      </plentry>
    </parml>
    <draft-comment author="ekimber">The current handling of <xmlatt>changebar</xmlatt> is a little Simon Says. It really
      needs to interpret any value that is not this specific syntax as "put a change bar out with reasonable defaults".
      Likewise, needs more appropriate defaults and a little value checking. I plan to add that but not reflecting those
      changes here until I actually make them.</draft-comment>
    <p>XSL-FO 1.1 does not provide for revision bars that are not rules, so there is no way to get text revision
      indicators instead of rules, for example, using a number in place of a rule. Antenna House Formatter provides a
      proprietary extension to enable this, but the DITA-OT PDF transformation does not take advantage of it.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
