<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<concept id="ID">
  <title>Plug-in coding conventions</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Coding conventions</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>To ensure custom plug-ins work well with the core toolkit code and remain compatible with future releases,
    the DITA Open Toolkit project recommends that plug-ins use modern development practices and common coding
    patterns.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>plug-ins
          <indexterm>best practices</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>upgrading
          <indexterm>best practices</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>XSLT
          <indexterm>best practices</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>preprocessing
          <indexterm>XSLT</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Best practices</title>
      <p>Adhering to certain development practices will properly isolate your code from that of DITA Open Toolkit. This
        will make it easier to you to upgrade to new versions of DITA-OT when they are released.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Use a properly-constructed DITA-OT plug-in.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Use a version control system to store your code.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Store the source code of your plug-ins outside of the DITA-OT installation directory, and add the
            repository location to the list of plug-in directories defined in the <parmname>plugindirs</parmname> entry
            of the
            <xref keyref="configuration-properties-file"><filepath>configuration.properties</filepath> file</xref>.
          </p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Never modify any of the core DITA-OT code.</p>
          <note type="tip">You may want to set the permissions on default plug-in directories such as
              <filepath>org.dita.pdf2</filepath> to “read-only” to ensure that you do not accidentally modify the files
            within as you develop your customized plug-in.</note></li>
        <li>
          <p>Avoid copying entire DITA-OT files into your customization plug-in. When you only copy the attribute sets
            and templates that you need to override, there is less risk of impact from new features or fixes in the base
            code, making your code more stable and easier to upgrade between releases.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>If you only need to change a few attribute sets and templates, you may prefer to store your overrides in
              <filepath>custom.xsl</filepath> files, or a simple folder hierarchy within your custom plug-in.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>In cases that require substantial customizations, you may prefer to organize the files in a folder
            structure that mimics the hierarchy of the default plug-in you are customizing. This facilitates comparisons
            with the default settings in the base plug-in and makes it easier to migrate your changes to new toolkit
            versions. See
            <xref keyref="pdf-plugin-structure"/> for information on the files in the base PDF plug-in.</p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Upgrade your customization plug-in to new versions of DITA-OT regularly. Do not wait through several major
            releases before upgrading.</p></li>
      </ul></section>

    <section>
      <title>Use a custom namespace</title>
      <p>For XSLT customizations, use a custom namespace for any modified template modes, template names, attribute
        sets, functions, and variables. This helps to clarify which portions of the code are specific to your
        customizations, and serves to isolate your changes in the event that items with the same name are added to the
        base plug-ins in the future.</p>
      <p>For example, instead of creating a template named <codeph>searchbar</codeph>, use something like
          <codeph>corp:searchbar</codeph> instead. This ensures that if future versions of DITA-OT add a
          <codeph>searchbar</codeph> template, your custom version will be unaffected.</p>
      <p>Instead of: <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:template name="searchbar"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>use: <codeblock outputclass="language-xml">&lt;xsl:template name="corp:searchbar"/></codeblock></p>
    </section>

    <section conkeyref="reusable-components/use-xslt2"/>

    <section>
      <title>Use custom <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement> elements</title>
      <indexterm>Ant
        <indexterm><xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>Ant
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>Ant
        <indexterm><xmlelement>style</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      <p>In Ant scripts, use the XSLT module from DITA-OT instead of Ant’s built-in <xmlelement>xslt</xmlelement> or
          <xmlelement>style</xmlelement> tasks. </p>
      <p>The XSLT module allows access to DITA-OT features like using the job configuration to select files in the
        temporary folder based on file metadata and custom XSLT extension functions.</p>
      <note type="important">Future versions of DITA-OT may switch to a new XML resolver or in-memory storage features
        that are not supported by Ant’s XSLT task. To ensure compatibility with future releases, plug-ins should replace
        these constructs with custom <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement> elements.</note>
      <p>Instead of:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
        >&lt;xslt style="${dita.plugin.example.dir}/custom.xsl"
      basedir="${dita.temp.dir}"
      destdir="${dita.output.dir}"
      includesfile="${dita.temp.dir}/${fullditatopicfile}"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>use:</p>
      <p><codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace">&lt;pipeline>
  &lt;xslt style="${dita.plugin.example.dir}/custom.xsl"
        destdir="${dita.output.dir}">
    &lt;ditafileset format="dita" />
  &lt;/xslt>
&lt;/pipeline></codeblock></p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Use the plug-in directory property</title>
      <p>In Ant scripts, always refer to files in other plug-ins using the
            <codeph>dita.plugin.<varname>plugin-id</varname>.dir</codeph> property.</p>
      <p>Instead of:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml"
        >&lt;property name="base" location="../example/custom.xsl"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>use:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml"
        >&lt;property name="base" location="${dita.plugin.example.dir}/custom.xsl"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>This fixes cases where plug-ins are installed to custom plug-in directories or the plug-in folder name doesn’t
        match the plug-in ID.</p>
      <note type="tip">For details, see
        <xref keyref="referencing-other-plugins"/>.</note>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Use the <codeph>plugin</codeph> URI scheme</title>
      <indexterm>Ant
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xsl:import</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>Ant
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xsl:include</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      <p>In XSLT, use the <codeph>plugin</codeph> URI scheme in <xmlelement>xsl:import</xmlelement> and
          <xmlelement>xsl:include</xmlelement> to reference files in other plug-ins.</p>
      <p>Instead of:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml"
        >&lt;xsl:import href="../../org.dita.base/xsl/common/output-message.xsl"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>use:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml"
        >&lt;xsl:import href="plugin:org.dita.base:xsl/common/output-message.xsl"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>As with the plug-in directory property in Ant, this allows plug-ins to resolve to the correct directory even
        when a plug-in moves to a new location. The plug-in is referenced using the syntax
            <codeph>plugin:<varname>plugin-id</varname>:<varname>path/within/plugin/file.xsl</varname></codeph>.</p>
      <note type="tip">For details, see
        <xref keyref="referencing-other-plugins"/>.</note>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Use <xmlelement>ditafileset</xmlelement> to select files</title>
      <indexterm>Ant
        <indexterm><xmlelement>ditafileset</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm><xmlelement>ditafileset</xmlelement></indexterm>
      <indexterm>images
        <indexterm>selecting</indexterm></indexterm>
      <indexterm>images
        <index-see-also>copy-files</index-see-also></indexterm>
      <p>In Ant scripts, use <xmlelement>ditafileset</xmlelement> to select resources in the temporary directory.</p>
      <p>For example, to select all images referenced by input DITA files, instead of:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
        >&lt;copy todir="${copy-image.todir}">
  &lt;fileset dir="${user.input.dir}">
    &lt;includes name="*.jpg"/>
    &lt;includes name="*.jpeg"/>
    &lt;includes name="*.png"/>
    &lt;includes name="*.gif"/>
    &lt;includes name="*.svg"/>
  &lt;/fileset>
&lt;/copy></codeblock></p>
      <p>use:</p>
      <p><codeblock
          outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
        >&lt;copy todir="${copy-image.todir}">
  &lt;ditafileset format="image" />
&lt;/copy></codeblock>
      </p>
      <p>The <xmlelement>ditafileset</xmlelement> resource collection can be used to select different types of
        files.</p>
      <table outputclass="table-hover" frame="none" colsep="0" rowsep="1">
        <title>Usage examples of <xmlelement>ditafileset</xmlelement></title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Example</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>&lt;ditafileset format="dita"/></codeph></entry>
              <entry>Selects all DITA topics in the temporary directory.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>&lt;ditafileset format="ditamap"/></codeph></entry>
              <entry>Selects all DITA maps in the temporary directory.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>&lt;ditafileset format="image"/></codeph></entry>
              <entry>Selects images of all known types in the temporary directory.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="match-classes">
      <title>Match elements with their <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute</title>
      <p>Use <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attributes to match elements in XPATH expressions instead of element names.</p>
      <p>For example, instead of: <codeblock>&lt;xsl:template match="p"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>use: <codeblock>&lt;xsl:template match="*[contains(@class,' topic/p ')]"/></codeblock></p>
      <p>Specialization-aware processing uses these classes to distinguish the general class of elements to which the
        current element belongs.</p>
      <note type="tip">Matching classes instead of elements ensures that the expression also applies to any specialized
        elements as well as to their more general ancestors. This means you can define new markup without necessarily
        requiring new processing rules.</note>
    </section>

    <section conkeyref="reusable-components/validating-plugins"/>

  </conbody>
</concept>
