<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<topic id="plugin-registry">
  <title>Adding plug-ins via the registry</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Plug-in registry</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc><ph id="registry-summary">DITA-OT 3.2 supports a new plug-in registry that makes it easier to discover and
      install new plug-ins. The registry provides a searchable list of plug-ins at <xref keyref="site-plugin-registry"
      />.</ph></shortdesc>
  <body>
    <section id="background">
      <p>In the past, installing plug-ins required you to either download a plug-in to your computer and provide the
        path to the plug-in archive (.zip file) or pass the URL of the plug-in distribution file to the
          <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command and let DITA-OT download the file. This required that you know the URL of the
        plug-in distribution package.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="using-the-registry">
      <title>Installing plug-ins from the registry</title>
      <p>With the registry, you can now search the list of available plug-ins at <xref keyref="site-plugin-registry"/>
        and install new plug-ins by name and optional version.</p>
      <p>Search the registry for a plug-in and install it by providing the plug-in name to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
        command.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--install</parmname> <varname>&lt;plugin-name&gt;</varname></codeblock>
      <p>If the registry includes multiple versions of the same plug-in, you can specify the version to install as
        follows:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--install</parmname> <varname>&lt;plugin-name&gt;@&lt;plugin-version&gt;</varname></codeblock>
      <p>If the plug-in requires other plug-ins, those are also installed recursively.</p>
      <p>For example, to revert PDF output to the legacy PDF2 layout that was the default in DITA-OT before 2.5, install
        the <filepath>org.dita.pdf2.legacy</filepath> plug-in as follows:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--install</parmname> org.dita.pdf2.legacy</codeblock>
      <p>If a matching plug-in cannot be found, an error message will appear. Possible reasons for failure include:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>A plug-in with the specified name was not found in the registry</li>
        <li>A plug-in with the specified version was not found in the registry</li>
        <li>The specified plug-in version is not compatible with the installed DITA-OT version</li>
        <li>None of the available plug-in versions are compatible with the installed DITA-OT version</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="publishing-to-registry"><title>Publishing plug-ins to the registry</title>
      <p>The main plug-in registry lives in https://github.com/dita-ot/registry. New plug-ins or new versions are added
        by creating a PR that add the plug-in entry in JSON format. The entries are named
          <codeph>&lt;plugin-name&gt;.json</codeph>. The contents of the entry file is an array of plug-in version
        entries.</p>
      <p>Structure of the plug-in version entries:</p><table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colname="col3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>key</entry>
              <entry>mandatory</entry>
              <entry>description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>name</codeph></entry>
              <entry>yes</entry>
              <entry>Plugin name</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>version</codeph></entry>
              <entry>yes</entry>
              <entry>Plugin version in SemVer format</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>deps</codeph></entry>
              <entry>yes</entry>
              <entry>Array of dependency entries. The only mandatory plug-in dependency is
                  <codeph>org.dita.base</codeph> which defines the supported DITA-OT platform.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>url</codeph></entry>
              <entry>yes</entry>
              <entry>Absolute URL to plug-in distribution file</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>cksum</codeph></entry>
              <entry>no</entry>
              <entry>SHA-256 hash of the plug-in distribution file</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>description</codeph></entry>
              <entry>no</entry>
              <entry>Description of the plug-in</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>keywords</codeph></entry>
              <entry>no</entry>
              <entry>Array of keywords</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>homepage</codeph></entry>
              <entry>no</entry>
              <entry>Plugin homepage URL</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>license</codeph></entry>
              <entry>no</entry>
              <entry>License in <xref href="https://spdx.org/licenses/" format="html" scope="external">SPDX</xref>
                format</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>Structure for dependency entries:</p><table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colname="col3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>key</entry>
              <entry>mandatory</entry>
              <entry>description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>name</codeph></entry>
              <entry>yes</entry>
              <entry>Plugin name</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><codeph>req</codeph></entry>
              <entry>yes</entry>
              <entry>Required plug-in version in SemVer format that may contain <xref
                  href="https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#ranges" format="html" scope="external">ranges</xref>.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></section>
    <section id="example-1"><title>Example</title>
      <p>Troff <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/registry/blob/master/org.dita.troff.json" format="json"
          scope="external">plug-in
      entry</xref></p><codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="json">[
  {
    "name": "org.dita.troff",
    "vers": "3.1.1",
    "deps": [
      {
        "name": "org.dita.base",
        "req": "&gt;=3.1"
      }
    ],
    "url": "https://github.com/dita-ot/org.dita.troff/archive/3.1.1.zip",
    "cksum": "20ba674c505d38b9cfb315d9d327a07f021fb12a663ccdb75271241b92f04e1e"
  }
]</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="adding-custom-registries"><title>Adding custom registries</title>
      <p>Configuration file <codeph>config/configuration.properties</codeph> has key <codeph>registry</codeph> that is a
        space separated list of registry URLs. Add custom registries into the <codeph>registry</codeph> key
      value.</p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
