<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<concept id="plugin-benefits">
  <title>Plug-in benefits</title>
  <shortdesc>Plug-ins allow you to extend the toolkit in a way that is consistent, easy-to-share, and possible to
    preserve through toolkit upgrades.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>plug-ins
          <indexterm>benefits</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <conbody>
    <p>The DITA-OT plug-in mechanism provides the following benefits:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Plug-ins can easily be shared with other users, teams, or companies. Typically, all users need to do is to
        unzip and run a single installation command. With many builds, even that installation step is automatic.</li>
      <li>Plug-ins permit overrides or customizations to grow from simple to complex over time, with no increased
        complexity to the extension mechanism.</li>
      <li>Plug-ins can be moved from version to version of DITA-OT by reinstalling or copying the directory from one
        installation to another. There is no need to re-integrate code based on updates to DITA-OT core processing.</li>
      <li>Plug-ins can build upon each other. If you like a plug-in, simply install that plug-in, and then create your
        own plug-in that builds on top of it. The two plug-ins can then be distributed to your team as a unit, or you
        can share your own extensions with the original provider.</li>
    </ul>
  </conbody>
</concept>
