<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<concept id="ID">
  <title>Sample theme file</title>
  <shortdesc>Theme files can be written in either
    <xref keyref="json"/> or
    <xref keyref="yaml"/> format. The <filepath>docsrc/samples/themes</filepath> folder in the DITA-OT installation
    directory provides several examples.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <note>The examples provided here are all in YAML format, which is generally more compact and readable than
      JSON.</note>
    <p>The YAML theme file used to produce the PDF output for the DITA-OT documentation is included in the installation
      directory as <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
      >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath>.</p>
    <p>The examples below include excerpts from this theme that show common customizations. You can adapt these examples
      for your own requirements.</p>
    <note type="tip">For an overview of the elements and other settings that the theme plug-in supports, see
      <xref keyref="styles"/>,
      <xref keyref="page-settings"/>,
      <xref keyref="header-and-footer"/>, and
      <xref keyref="variables"/>.</note>
    <example id="colors">
      <title>Setting custom colors</title>
      <p>Like in CSS or
        <xref keyref="sass-lang"/>, you can use
        <xref keyref="variables"/> to define brand colors and other shared values, and re-use these them in other
        <xref keyref="styles"/> using semantic references such as <codeph>$brand-color-primary</codeph>.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Color variables in <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml#token=add-brand-colors,end-brand-colors"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
    </example>
    <example id="fonts">
      <title>Defining custom font stacks</title>
      <p>You can also use
        <xref keyref="variables"/> to specify a prioritized list of one or more font family names and reference these
        values in the <codeph>font-family</codeph> property of other
        <xref keyref="styles">style</xref> keys.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Font families in <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml#token=add-font-stacks,end-font-stacks"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <p>This theme uses the default font stacks from the default <codeph>org.dita.pdf2</codeph> plug-in, but the same
        approach can be used to define other font families as required by your corporate identity.</p>
      <p>The font variables defined here under the <codeph>pdf2</codeph> prefix could just as well be added to the
          <codeph>brand</codeph> key, or under a company name prefix and re-used elsewhere with references such as
          <codeph>$company-font-sans</codeph>.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="page-size">
      <title>Defining page sizes</title>
      <p>
        <xref keyref="page-settings"/> include page <codeph>size</codeph>, <codeph
        >orientation</codeph>, and margins.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Page settings in <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml#token=add-page-settings,end-page-settings"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <p>The DITA-OT documentation theme uses the <codeph>PA4</codeph> page size, a 21 × 28 cm transitional format 
        suitable for printing on both A4 and US Letter paper.</p>
      <p>The <codeph>mirror-margins</codeph> key sets up facing pages for double-sided documents, so the margins of the
        left page are a mirror image of those on the right.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="overrides">
      <title>Extending and overriding themes</title>
      <p>You can
        <xref keyref="extending-themes">extend</xref> one theme with another. The samples in the DITA-OT installation
        directory include additional theme files that can be used to override the <codeph>PA4</codeph> page size in the
        documentation theme with either A4 or Letter.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Switching page size to A4 with <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs_A4.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs_A4.yaml"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <fig>
        <title>Switching page size to Letter with <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs_Letter.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs_Letter.yaml"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <p>When one of these theme extensions is passed to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command via the
          <parmname>--theme</parmname> option, the <codeph>page-size</codeph> value in the extending theme takes
        precedence over the original value in <filepath>dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath>.</p>
      <p>If you add any new keys to a theme extension, they will be overlaid onto the keys from the extended theme.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="headers-footers">
      <title>Setting up headers and footers</title>
      <p>The documentation theme includes sample customizations to adjust the content of the running headers and footers
        that appear on each page.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Formatting headers and running content in <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml#token=add-header-setup,end-header-setup"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <p>These settings use the secondary brand color for page headers (as defined above under
        <xref href="#./colors"/>), the sans-serif font families defined above under
        <xref href="#./fonts"/>, and position the content with indentation and padding.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Formatting footers and page numbers in <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml#token=add-footer-setup,end-footer-setup"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <p>These settings use the <codeph>{folio}</codeph> field to place the current page number on the outside edges of
        each page footer. The <codeph>content</codeph> key may include combinations of static text, or reference
        variables using curly braces. For details on the available options, see
        <xref keyref="header-and-footer"/> and
        <xref keyref="variables"/>.</p>
    </example>
    <example id="cover-page">
      <title>Adding an image to the cover page</title>
      <p>The <codeph>cover</codeph> and <codeph>cover-title</codeph>
        <xref keyref="styles"/> can be used to add a background image and adjust the formatting and placement of the
        document title.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Cover page settings in <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</filepath></title>
        <p><codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              format="yaml"
              href="../samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml#token=set-cover-page,end-cover-page"
            /></codeblock></p>
      </fig>
      <p>The DITA-OT documentation theme references a background image stored in the same folder as the theme file, 
        and places the title at the bottom of the page by
        setting the <codeph>space-before</codeph> property for the <codeph>cover-title</codeph>.</p>
      <note type="tip">The latest version of the documentation theme is available on GitHub:
        <xref
          format="html"
          scope="external"
          href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/blob/develop/samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml"
        >dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</xref>.</note>
    </example>
  </conbody>
</concept>
