<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<task id="ID">
  <title>Publishing with project files</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Using a project file</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc><ph id="projects-desc">DITA-OT 3.4 introduces new project files to define publication projects with
      multiple deliverables. Projects specify a context, output folder, and publication for each deliverable. A
      re-usable context groups source files and filters, and a publication defines an output format with transformation
      parameters. You can pass a project file to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command to publish multiple deliverables at
      once.</ph></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command
          <indexterm>project files</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>project files
          <indexterm>using</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <section>
      <title>About project files</title>
      <p id="projects-formats">Project files may be defined in one of three formats: XML,
        <xref keyref="json"/>, or
        <xref keyref="yaml"/>. The XML format can be validated with a RELAX NG schema provided in the
          <filepath>resources</filepath> folder of the DITA-OT installation (<filepath>project.rnc</filepath>).</p>
      <note>The XML project file format is the normative version provided for interoperability with existing XML-based
        toolchains. The JSON and YAML versions are alternative compact formats that are easier to read and write, but
        otherwise equivalent to the XML syntax.</note>
      <p id="projects-advantages">Whereas <filepath>.properties</filepath> files can only be used to set parameters,
        project files go further, allowing you to define multiple deliverables with separate input files and output
        folders and formats for each publication. A project file can also refer to other project files, so you can
        re-use common configuration structures across projects.</p>
      <p id="projects-relpaths">Another advantage of project files over <filepath>.properties</filepath> files is that
        they allow you to specify paths relative to the project file, even for parameters that require absolute paths,
        such as:
        <ul>
          <li><codeph>args.cssroot</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>args.ftr</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>args.hdf</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>args.hdr</codeph></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p id="projects-structure">Though the exact syntax differs slightly, the basic structure of project files is
        similar in all supported formats.</p>
      <ul compact="yes">
        <li>
          <p>You can link to other project files with <codeph>include(s)</codeph></p></li>
        <li>
          <p>Projects can define multiple <codeph>deliverables</codeph>, which consist of:
            <ul>
              <li>
                <p>a publication <codeph>context</codeph> that may include:
                  <ul>
                    <li>an <codeph>id</codeph> used to refer to this context from other projects</li>
                    <li>a series of <codeph>input</codeph> files (DITA maps)</li>
                    <li>a <codeph>profile</codeph> with a series of DITAVAL files used to filter the content</li>
                  </ul>
                </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>an <codeph>output</codeph> location (relative to the CLI <parmname>--output</parmname>
                directory)</p></li>
              <li>a <codeph>publication</codeph> that defines:
                <ul compact="yes">
                  <li>an output format via <codeph>transtype</codeph>, and</li>
                  <li>a series of parameters to set for this transformation type, specified via <codeph>name</codeph>
                    and either <codeph>href</codeph>, <codeph>path</codeph>, or <codeph>value</codeph></li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </p></li>
      </ul>
      <note type="tip">
        <ul>
          <li>Use <codeph>href</codeph> for web addresses and other resources that should resolve to an absolute
            URI.</li>
          <li>Use <codeph>path</codeph> for parameters that require an absolute value, like
              <parmname>args.cssroot</parmname>. Paths may be defined relative to the project file, but are always
            expanded to an absolute system path.</li>
          <li>Use <codeph>value</codeph> to define strings and relative values for properties like
              <parmname>args.csspath</parmname>, which is used to describe a relative path in the output folder.</li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </section>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a project file to define the deliverables in your publication project.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>For example:</p>
          <fig>
            <title>Sample project file for PDF output: <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
              >/project-files/pdf.xml</filepath></title>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef
                href="../samples/project-files/pdf.xml"
              /></codeblock>
          </fig>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Pass your project file to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command to build output.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--project</parmname>=<varname
            >pdf.xml</varname></codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>If needed, pass additional arguments to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command to override specific build
          parameters. </cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>For example, to build output once with <xmlelement>draft</xmlelement> and
              <xmlelement>required-cleanup</xmlelement> content:</p>
          <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--project</parmname>=<varname
            >pdf.xml</varname> <parmname>--args.draft</parmname>=<option>yes</option></codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step importance="optional">
        <cmd>If your project contains multiple deliverables, you can pass the <parmname>--deliverable</parmname> option
          to generate output for a single deliverable ID.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash"><cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname>--project</parmname>=<varname
            >all.xml</varname> <parmname>--deliverable</parmname>=<option>htmlhelp</option></codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
    </steps>
  </taskbody>
</task>
