<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<task id="ID">
  <title>Running the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command from a GitHub Action</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Using GitHub Actions</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>
    <ph id="github-actions-desc">
      <xref keyref="github-actions"/> are a CI/CD workflow mechanism attached to GitHub. Each action is an individual
      unit of functionality that can be combined with other GitHub Actions to create workflows, which are triggered in
      response to certain GitHub events. As of version 3.6.1, the DITA-OT project provides an official
      <xref keyref="dita-ot-action"/> that can be used as a step within a GitHub workflow to publish
      documentation as part of your CI/CD pipeline.</ph></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><cmdname>dita</cmdname> command
          <indexterm>running from GitHub CI/CD</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>GitHub Actions</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <taskbody>
    <section>
      <title>About GitHub Actions</title>
      <p>
        GitHub Actions can automate tasks such as document generation as part of your
        software development life cycle. GitHub Actions are event-driven, allowing a
        series of tasks to run one after another when a specified event has occurred.
      </p>
      <p>Each step is an individual atomic task that can run commands in a job. A step can be either an action or a
        shell command. Each step in a job executes on the same runner, allowing the actions in that job to share data
        with each other, therefore files generated through the <codeph>dita-ot-build</codeph> action can be archived or
        published by later actions within the same job.</p>
    </section>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In your GitHub repository, create the <codeph
          >.github/workflows/</codeph> directory to store your workflow files.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <codeph>.github/workflows/</codeph> directory, create a new file called
            <filepath>dita-ot-build-actions.yml</filepath> and add the following code.</cmd>
          <stepxmp>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-whitespace"><coderef
              href="../samples/github-actions/minimal-action.yaml#line-range(1,12)"
            /></codeblock>
          </stepxmp>
        <info>This setup ensures the action runs whenever code is updated on the <codeph>master</codeph> branch and
        checks out the codebase.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the same file, add the following code.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml show-whitespace"><coderef
              href="../samples/github-actions/minimal-action.yaml#line-range(13,18)"
            /></codeblock>
          <p>This action specifies the following:
            <ul>
              <li><parmname
                >name</parmname> defines the name of the action to be displayed within the GitHub repository</li>
              <li><parmname>uses</parmname> specifies the  name and version of the GitHub Action to run. Use  <codeph
                >dita-ot/dita-ot-action@master</codeph> to run the latest version.</li>
              <li><parmname>input</parmname> specifies the name and location of the input map file within the GitHub
                repository (relative to the repository root)</li>
              <li><parmname>transtype</parmname> sets the output format to PDF, and</li>
              <li><parmname>output-path</parmname> writes the output to the <filepath
                >out</filepath> folder within the running action</li>
            </ul>
          </p>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <example>
      <p>The <filepath>docsrc/samples</filepath> folder in the DITA-OT installation directory contains several complete
        examples. The following GitHub Action generates styled HTML and PDF outputs.</p>
      <fig>
        <title>Sample GitHub Action: <filepath conkeyref="conref-task/samples-dir"/><filepath
          >/github-actions/dita-ot-pipeline.yaml</filepath></title>
        <codeblock outputclass="language-yaml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"><coderef
            href="../samples/github-actions/dita-ot-pipeline.yaml"
          /></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <p>The <cite>Build HTML5 + Bootstrap</cite> step reuses the <parmname>input</parmname>,
          <parmname>transtype</parmname> and <parmname>output-path</parmname> settings. In addition, additional DITA-OT
        plug-ins can be loaded using the <parmname
        >plugins</parmname> parameter, with each plug-in separated by a comma or
        new line separator. </p>
      <p>The <cite>Build PDF</cite> step uses an alternative syntax where the <parmname>install</parmname> and
          <parmname>build</parmname> parameters are used to run arbitrary commands from the command line.</p>
    </example>
    <postreq>See the <filepath>docsrc/samples/github-actions</filepath> folder in the DITA-OT installation directory for
      additional examples of GitHub Actions for different scenarios.</postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
