<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="ID">
  <title>Web-based resources</title>
  <shortdesc>There are many vital DITA resources online, including the DITA Users group and the DITA-OT project website
    at dita-ot.org.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="https://www.dita-ot.org" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT project website:
              dita-ot.org</xref></dt>
          <dd>The DITA-OT project website at dita-ot.org provides information about the latest toolkit releases,
            including download links, release notes, and documentation for recent DITA-OT versions.
            <indexterm>dita-ot.org</indexterm>
            <indexterm>project website
              <index-see>dita-ot.org</index-see></indexterm></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="https://groups.io/g/dita-users" format="html" scope="external">DITA Users group</xref></dt>
          <dd>The original dita-users group was founded in 2004 as a Yahoo! Group and moved to Groups.io in November
            2019. The mailing list addresses the needs of DITA users at all levels of experience, from beginners to
            experts, and serves as a vital resource for the DITA community.
            <indexterm>DITA Users group</indexterm>
            <indexterm>Yahoo! dita-users group
              <index-see>DITA Users group</index-see></indexterm></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref
              href="https://github.com/orgs/dita-ot/discussions"
              format="html"
              scope="external"
            >DITA-OT Discussions</xref>
          </dt>
          <dd>The DITA-OT Discussions forum on GitHub is a collaborative communication platform that allows members of
           the community to ask questions, share suggestions, upvote discussions to signal support, and mark questions as answered.
            <indexterm>GitHub Discussions
              <index-see>DITA-OT Discussions</index-see></indexterm></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref format="html" href="https://groups.google.com/d/forum/dita-ot-users" scope="external">DITA-OT Users
              group</xref>
          </dt>
          <dd>General interest DITA-OT mailing list, for questions on any aspect of the toolkit — from installation and
            getting started to specific overrides, plug-ins, and customizations.
            <indexterm>DITA-OT Users group</indexterm>
            <indexterm>Google Group
              <index-see>DITA-OT Users group</index-see></indexterm></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/dita/" format="html" scope="external">Home page for the
              DITA Technical Committee</xref></dt>
          <dd>The OASIS DITA Technical Committee develops the DITA standard.
            <indexterm>OASIS</indexterm>
            <indexterm>DITA Technical Committee</indexterm></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>
            <xref href="http://dita-archive.xml.org/wiki/the-dita-open-toolkit" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT
              project archive</xref></dt>
          <dd>The DITA-OT project archive at dita-archive.xml.org provides news about earlier toolkit releases, and
            release notes for legacy versions.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
