<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->

<concept id="concept_rcv_xbp_xg">
  <title><parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter</title>
  <shortdesc>Elaboration on how the <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter functions.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Background</title>
      <p>This is an issue in the following situations:<ul>
          <li>The DITA map is in a directory that is a peer to directories that contain referenced objects.</li>
          <li>The DITA map is in a directory that is below the directories that contain the referenced objects.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Let's assume that the directory structure for the DITA content looks like the
        following:<pre>images/
  fig.png
maps/
  start.ditamap
topics/
  topic.dita</pre>The DITA
        map is in the <filepath>maps</filepath> directory, the topics are in the<filepath>
          topics</filepath> directory, and the images are in the <filepath>images</filepath>
        directory.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Setting the <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter to <option>1</option></title>
      <p>Let's assume that you run the HTML5 transformation. By default, The DITA-OT uses the
          <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter with a value of <option>1</option>.
        Output is not built for the topics. You receive only the following output:
        <pre>index.html
commonltr.css
commonrtl.css</pre>The <filepath>index.html</filepath> file
        contains the navigation structure, but all the links are broken, since no HTML5 files were
        built for the topics.</p>
      <p>How do you fix this? By specifying a value of <option>3</option> for the
          <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Setting the <parmname>generate.copy.outer</parmname> parameter to <option>3</option></title>
      <p>Now your output directory structure looks like this:
        <pre>images/
  fig.png
maps/
  index.html
topics/
  topic.html
commonltr.css
commonrtl.css</pre>The
        index.html file is in the maps directory, and the CSS and other files are located in the
        output directory. Copying the output directory is simplified.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
