<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE.md file for applicable licenses.-->

<reference id="ant-parameters-other">
  <title>Other parameters</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Other</navtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <shortdesc>These parameters enable you to reload style sheets that the DITA-OT uses for specific pre-processing
    stages.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="11 August 2012">I've made no attempt to work with the content
        in the topic. Here's what I'd like to know:<ul>
          <li>When would someone want to use the various <parmname>dita.preprocess</parmname> parameters? (Other than if
            they need to reduce Java memory consumption.) The use cases are not clear from the current description.</li>
        </ul></draft-comment>
      <parml>
        <plentry>
          <pt id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet"><parmname>dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet</parmname></pt>
          <pt id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.conref">
            <parmname>dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.conref</parmname>
          </pt>
          <pt id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.mapref">
            <parmname>dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.mapref</parmname>
          </pt>
          <pt id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.mappull">
            <parmname>dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.mappull</parmname>
          </pt>
          <pt id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.maplink">
            <parmname>dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.maplink</parmname>
          </pt>
          <pt id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.topicpull">
            <parmname>dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.topicpull</parmname>
          </pt>
          <pd id="dita.preprocess.reloadstylesheet.desc">
            <p>Specifies whether the DITA-OT reloads the XSL style sheets that are used for the transformation. The
              allowed values are <option>true</option> and <option>false</option>; the default value is
                <option>false</option>.</p>
            <p>During the pre-processing stage, DITA-OT processes one DITA topic at a time, using the same XSLT
              stylesheet for the entire process. These parameters control whether Ant will use the same
                <codeph>Transformer</codeph> object in Java, the object that handles the XSLT processing, for all
              topics, or create a separate <codeph>Transformer</codeph> for each topic.</p>
            <p>The default (<option>false</option>) option uses the same <codeph>Transformer</codeph>, which is a little
              faster, because it will not need to parse/compile the XSLT stylesheets and only needs to read the source
              trees with <codeph>document()</codeph> once. The downside is that it will not release the source trees
              from memory, so you can run out of memory.</p>
            <note type="tip">For large projects that generate Java out-of-memory errors during transformation, set the
              parameter to <option>true</option> to allow the XSLT processor to release memory. You may also need to
              increase the memory available to Java.</note>
          </pd>
        </plentry>
      </parml>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
