<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="ID" rev="3.6">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 3.6 Release Notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Release Notes</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 3.6.1 is a maintenance release that fixes issues
      reported in DITA-OT 3.6, which includes <ph conref="#v3.6/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p conkeyref="conref-task/semver-info"/>
    <note type="tip"><ph conkeyref="conref-task/download-ot"/></note>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p conkeyref="reusable-components/java-clients"/>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v3.6.1" outputclass="mark">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.6.1
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted">released March 9, 2021</ph>
    </title>

    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 3.6.1 is a maintenance release that includes the
          following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="3656">In DITA-OT 3.6, builds failed with a NullPointerException when Ant targets in custom
              <xmlelement>pipeline</xmlelement> elements were run without passing references to the new Ant project by
            setting the <xmlatt>inheritRefs</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>antcall</xmlelement> to
              <codeph>true</codeph>. This case will no longer cause the build to fail, but custom plug-ins should still
            set targets to inherit references to ensure that processing runs as expected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3656" format="html" scope="external">#3656</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3657" format="html" scope="external">#3657</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3659">The <codeph>jsass</codeph> compiler used in the HTML5 plug-in build process up to DITA-OT 3.6
            relied on LibSass, which has been deprecated in favor of Dart Sass and caused errors when building on the
            64-bit extension of the ARM architecture. The SCSS source files are now converted to CSS using the official
            Dart Sass compiler, which allows DITA-OT distribution builds to run on recent Macs and other ARM systems.
            <xref format="html" href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3659" scope="external">#3659</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3667">In DITA-OT 3.6, builds failed with a NullPointerException when an unset logger was called. A new
            guard has been added to handle these cases more gracefully.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3667" format="html" scope="external">#3667</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3706" format="html" scope="external">#3706</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3669">The <msgnum>DOTX037W</msgnum> warning message that appears when source documents have no title
            has been updated to clarify references to the fallback text that will be used for the HTML page title.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3669" format="html" scope="external">#3669</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3670" format="html" scope="external">#3670</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3677">DITA-OT 3.6 failed with an IllegalArgumentException when maps contained topic references to
            e-mail addresses or other peer resources that are not accessible at build time. Processing has been updated
            to properly handle non-file references.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3677" format="html" scope="external">#3677</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3698" format="html" scope="external">#3698</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3680">In DITA-OT 3.6, branch filtering with nested subtopics failed with an IllegalArgumentException:
              <msgph>URI has a fragment component</msgph>. Processing has been updated to correctly transform references
            that contain anchors.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3680" format="html" scope="external">#3680</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3696" format="html" scope="external">#3696</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3687">DITA-OT 3.6 in-memory processing calculated absolute paths incorrectly when merging maps. The
            merge map and topic parsers have been updated to properly compute absolute locations.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3687" format="html" scope="external">#3687</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3699" format="html" scope="external">#3699</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3688">DITA-OT 3.6 introduced a regression that prevented PDF2 custom font mappings from resolving
            properly. The PDF pre-processor task has been updated with a delegating URI resolver to ensure that custom
            resources in PDF plug-ins are applied as expected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3688" format="html" scope="external">#3688</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3695" format="html" scope="external">#3695</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3689">Custom rules used to adjust the names and locations of output files in the map-first
            pre-processing routine were no longer applied in DITA-OT 3.6. Preprocessing has been updated to ensure that
            stylesheets specified via the <parmname>result.rewrite-rule.xsl</parmname> parameter are correctly applied.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3689" format="html" scope="external">#3689</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3697" format="html" scope="external">#3697</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3694">In DITA-OT 3.6, a regression prevented multi-level key references from resolving properly.
            Processing has been updated to ensure that topic metadata is correctly copied between key definitions and
            key references that point to other keys.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3694" format="html" scope="external">#3694</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3701" format="html" scope="external">#3701</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="ghcr">The GitHub Packages Docker registry used to publish DITA-OT Docker images prior to version 3.6
            has been superseded by the GitHub Container Registry. The new registry offers anonymous access to public
            container images, so you can use it without a GitHub account. As of DITA-OT 3.6.1, the official image is
            published to the new registry at <xref href="https://ghcr.io" format="html" scope="external">ghcr.io</xref>.
            If you’ve pulled from <codeph>docker.pkg.github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/dita-ot:<varname
              >version</varname></codeph>
            in the past, update your workflow to pull from
            <codeph>ghcr.io/dita-ot/dita-ot:<varname>version</varname></codeph> instead.
          </li>
          <li id="gh-action">The DITA-OT project now provides an official
            <xref keyref="dita-ot-action"/> that can be used to publish documentation via
            <xref keyref="github-actions"/> whenever your source files are changed.</li>
          <li id="docs"> The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6.1 provides corrections and improvements to
            existing topics, along with new information in the following topics:
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="using-github-actions"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="using-docker-images"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="creating-docker-images"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="plugin-coding-conventions"/></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on the issues resolved since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.6.1+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >3.6.1 milestone</xref> and
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.6...3.6.1" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
  <reference id="v3.6">
    <title>DITA-OT 3.6
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted">released December 19, 2020</ph>
    </title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm/>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6 includes <ph id="summary">performance enhancements such
            as processing in parallel and in memory, support for PDF changebars with <tm
              trademark="Apache"
              tmtype="tm"
            >Apache</tm> FOP, and an updated preview of features for the latest draft of the upcoming DITA 2.0
            standard, including the <xmlelement>audio</xmlelement> and <xmlelement>video</xmlelement> elements, and the
            new emphasis domain</ph>.</p>
      </section>
      <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.6+is%3Aclosed+label%3Afeature+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
      <section conkeyref="migrating-to-3.6/parallel-processing">
        <title/>
        <p/>
      </section>

      <section conkeyref="migrating-to-3.6/in-memory-processing">
        <title/>
        <p/>
      </section>

      <section>
        <title>Additional performance improvements</title>
        <p>DITA-OT 3.6 includes a series of related changes designed to improve the performance of DITA
          transformations.</p>
        <ul>
          <li id="3616">
            <p>A new <parmname>--repeat</parmname> option can be passed to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command to run
              the process a certain number of times. This option can be used by plug-in developers to measure
              performance. (Timings for the first transformation are often dominated by Java warm-up time.)
              <xref
                href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3616"
                format="html"
                scope="external"
              >#3616</xref></p>
            <p>To run a conversion five times, for example, use <parmname>--repeat</parmname>=<option>5</option>. The
              duration of each execution will appear in the console when the final transformation is complete.
              <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash multi-platform">$ <cmdname>dita</cmdname> <parmname
                >--input</parmname>=<filepath>docsrc/samples/sequence.ditamap</filepath> <parmname
                >--format</parmname>=<option>html5</option> <parmname>--repeat</parmname>=<option>5</option>
1 11281ms
2 4132ms
3 3690ms
4 4337ms
5 3634ms</codeblock>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li id="3569">The DITA-OT Java code uses a new caching <codeph>DitaClass.getInstance(cls)</codeph> factory
            method rather than generating <codeph>DitaClass</codeph> instances directly. This allows previously created
            instances to be re-used, which reduces the number of instances that need to be created.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3569" format="html" scope="external">#3569</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3570">The Java code for several preprocessing modules has been refactored to use concurrent sets or
            queues. This helps to speed up certain operations during preprocessing, allowing builds to complete faster.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3570" format="html" scope="external">#3570</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3583">The Java code now uses a <codeph>BufferedWriter</codeph> to serialize <codeph>Job</codeph>
            objects, which significantly improves UTF-8 encoding performance when writing the
              <filepath>.job.xml</filepath> file.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3583" format="html" scope="external">#3583</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section conkeyref="migrating-to-3.6/fop-changebars">
        <title/>
        <p/>
      </section>

      <section id="dita-2-0-preview">
        <title>Updated DITA 2.0 preview</title>
        <p>In addition to the
          <xref keyref="dita-v2-0-support"/> provided in DITA-OT 3.5, this release includes updated processing support
          for the latest DRAFT versions of the DITA 2.0 DTD and RELAX NG grammar files from OASIS (as of October 2020).
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3586" format="html" scope="external">#3586</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3601" format="html" scope="external">#3601</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3617" format="html" scope="external">#3617</xref>,
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3652" format="html" scope="external">#3652</xref>
        </p>
        <ul conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/added-in-3.6">
          <li/>
        </ul>
        <p conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/grammar-files"/>
        <note conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/more-to-come"/>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements and changes</title>
        <indexterm/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6 includes the following enhancements and changes to
          existing features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.6+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="3448">The <xmlatt>rotate</xmlatt> attribute on table <xmlelement>entry</xmlelement> elements is now
            respected when generating HTML5 output. The rotation is implemented by setting the CSS
              <codeph>writing-mode</codeph> property to <codeph>vertical-rl</codeph> to rotate the cell content. This
            property is rendered correctly in Mozilla Firefox, but unevenly supported by other browsers. The
              <codeph>rotate</codeph> class is passed to HTML5 output, so custom plug-ins can implement alternative
            presentation rules in CSS if necessary.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3448" format="html" scope="external">#3448</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3541" format="html" scope="external">#3541</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3651" format="html" scope="external">#3651</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3495">User-facing text for the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command line interface has been extracted to a
            strings file to facilitate editing. The <filepath>cli_en_US.properties</filepath> is provided in the
              <filepath>resources</filepath> folder as a basis for customization and localization.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3495" format="html" scope="external">#3495</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3523" format="html" scope="external">#3523</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3506">The new <codeph>Store</codeph> implementation that supports in-memory processing includes an
            immutable document reader method that can be used to request a document that doesn't need to change during
            processing. This approach facilitates caching and helps to speed up processing.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3506" format="html" scope="external">#3506</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3548" format="html" scope="external">#3548</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3535">In earlier versions, variations in reference capitalization could cause unexpected results when
            building output on case-sensitive file systems. DITA-OT now warns when file references use incorrect case.
            (For example, if maps reference <filepath>Topic.dita</filepath>, but the filename on disk is actually
              <filepath>topic.dita</filepath>.) In strict processing mode, this is considered a fatal error; in lax
            processing mode, the file reference is rewritten to use the same case as the file system.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3535" format="html" scope="external">#3535</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3556">The <parmname>--filter</parmname> option can now be passed to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            multiple times in a single command-line invocation to apply conditions from several DITAVAL files at once.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3556" format="html" scope="external">#3556</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3558">The bundled <tm trademark="Apache" tmtype="tm">Apache</tm> Formatting Objects Processor (FOP)
            has been upgraded to version 2.5, which includes security updates to various embedded libraries.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3558" format="html" scope="external">#3558</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3630" format="html" scope="external">#3630</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3562">The deprecated <codeph>msgprefix</codeph> XSL variable (“DOTX”) has been removed. This variable
            was originally deprecated in DITA-OT 2.3, but still defined in several stylesheets. Importing the common XSL
            module <filepath>output-message.xsl</filepath> no longer requires this variable to be defined.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3562" format="html" scope="external">#3562</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3564">The <apiname>S9api</apiname> message listener from the Saxon API is now used to forward log
            messages to the <codeph>DITAOTLogger</codeph>. This allows message levels and error codes to be passed from
            XSLT to Java code for improved debugging.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3564" format="html" scope="external">#3564</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="3569">Cache DitaClass instances
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3569" format="html" scope="external">#3569</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3570">Use concurrent sets or queues
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3570" format="html" scope="external">#3570</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3583">Use BufferedWriter to output Job for 200 fold performance improvement
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3583" format="html" scope="external">#3583</xref>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="3594">HTML5 output now includes additional metadata to indicate that the content was produced using
            DITA Open Toolkit.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3594" format="html" scope="external">#3594</xref>
            <codeblock outputclass="language-html">&lt;meta name="generator" content="DITA-OT"/&gt;</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li id="3595">Up to version 3.5, DITA-OT included the
            <xref keyref="dublin-core"/> in both XHTML and HTML5 output. For DITA-OT 3.6, this capability was extracted
            to a separate plugin, and Dublin Core metadata is no longer generated in the default HTML5 output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3595" format="html" scope="external">#3595</xref>
            <p>If necessary, the
              <xref keyref="plugin-dublin-core"/> plug-in can be installed from the plug-in registry at
              <xref keyref="site-plugin-registry"/> to add Dublin Core metadata to HTML5. To install the plug-in, run
              the following command:</p>
            <codeblock outputclass="syntax-bash"><cmdname>dita install</cmdname> org.dita.html5.dublin-core</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li id="3599">In XHTML output, previous versions failed to distinguish <i>Notice</i> note types from regular
            notes, prefixing both with <b>Note</b>. Support has been backported from HTML5 to XHTML to prefix notices
            with <b>Notice</b> as expected.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3599" format="html" scope="external">#3599</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3600" format="html" scope="external">#3600</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3602">Unused code for flagging and key processing has been removed along with related files that have
            been deprecated since version 2.1, including the base <filepath>flag.xsl</filepath> stylesheet, the
            generated <filepath>keydef.xml</filepath> file, and <filepath>schemekeydef.xml</filepath>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3602" format="html" scope="external">#3602</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3603" format="html" scope="external">#3603</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="3617">Share latest from oasis-tcs/dita and oasis-tcs/dita-techcomm
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3617" format="html" scope="external">#3617</xref>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="3632">
            <p>Remaining inline style attributes were removed from HTML5 code, which prevented custom plug-ins from
              overriding the presentation of the corresponding elements, including:
              <ul>
                <li><line-through><xmlelement>line-through</xmlelement></line-through> and
                      <overline><xmlelement>overline</xmlelement></overline> elements</li>
                <li>syntax diagrams</li>
                <li>long quote citations</li>
                <li>Boolean states</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p>These changes move the default presentation rules to CSS to allow users to override these styles in
              custom stylesheets. The output is visually equivalent to the results generated by previous toolkit
              versions.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3632" format="html" scope="external">#3632</xref>
            </p>
            <note type="important">In publishing environments that do not use the default common CSS files, these styles
              may need to be implemented in custom stylesheets.</note>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bugs</title>
        <indexterm/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A3.6+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <!-- These issues only affected development builds, not any previously released version -->
          <!--
          <li id="3589">Build fails unless temp directory is specified
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3589" format="html" scope="external">#3589</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3593">Fix build init order to initialise project after temp dir
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3593" format="html" scope="external">#3593</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3609">Fix setting html5.map.url property
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3609" format="html" scope="external">#3609</xref>
          </li>
          -->
          <li id="2414">
            <p>Folder names in development build archives previously included the “<codeph>+</codeph>” plus sign, which
              caused errors when running from the unpacked directory. The snapshot folder name syntax has been updated
              to use the “<codeph>@</codeph>” at sign instead, which allows builds to run directly from the extracted
              folder.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2414" format="html" scope="external">#2414</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3623" format="html" scope="external">#3623</xref>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li id="3608">
            <p>The license text for the beta DITA 2.0 grammar file plug-in was missing in DITA-OT 3.5 and is now
              included in the distribution package.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3608" format="html" scope="external">#3608</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3649" format="html" scope="external">#3649</xref>
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>The Java code has been refactored to anticipate cases where resources are missing or incorrectly defined.
            <ul>
              <li id="3624">The <codeph>File.toURI()</codeph> method has been updated to ensure that the generated URI
                for a directory will always end in a trailing slash. This prevents unexpected errors in cases when the
                  <codeph>File</codeph> input points to a path that doesn’t exist.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3621" format="html" scope="external">#3621</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3624" format="html" scope="external">#3624</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3626" format="html" scope="external">#3626</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="3625">The <codeph>JobSourceSet</codeph> has been fixed to handle cases where the
                  <codeph>src</codeph> input is <codeph>null</codeph>.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3625" format="html" scope="external">#3625</xref>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li id="3627">In DITA-OT 3.5.4, the HTMLHelp stylesheet <filepath>map2hhcImpl.xsl</filepath> included an
            invalid code remnant left over from previous edits. The unnecessary line has been removed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3627" format="html" scope="external">#3627</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3634" format="html" scope="external">#3634</xref>
          </li>
          <!--
          <li id="3636">Fix repeat count in install and uninstall subcommands
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3636" format="html" scope="external">#3636</xref>
          </li>
          -->
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 3.5.4..` -->
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to the core toolkit, not docs.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Robert D Anderson</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
          <li>David Bertalan</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.5...3.6" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6 provides corrections and
          improvements to existing topics, along with new information in the following topics:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="store-api"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="dita-v2-0-support"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="migrating-to-3.6"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="reducing-processing-time"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="parameters-base"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="build-using-dita-command"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="dita-command-arguments"/></li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release <keyword
            keyref="release"
          />, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A3.6+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >3.6 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 3.6 includes
          <xref keyref="docs-contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to docs, not to the core toolkit.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Lief Erickson</li>
          <li>Heston Hoffman</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/3.5...3.6" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
