<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="ID" rev="4.1">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 4.1 Release Notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Release Notes</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 4.1.2 is a maintenance release that fixes issues
      reported in DITA-OT 4.1, which includes <ph conref="#v4.1/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p conkeyref="conref-task/semver-info"/>
    <note type="tip"><ph conkeyref="conref-task/download-ot"/></note>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements: Java 17</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p conkeyref="reusable-components/java-clients"/>
        <p conkeyref="reusable-components/java-bc"/>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v4.1.2" outputclass="mark">
    <title>DITA-OT 4.1.2
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted">released October 2, 2023</ph>
    </title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 4.1.2 is a maintenance release that includes the
          following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1.2+is%3Aclosed+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
          <li id="4237">Various issues in map-first preprocessing have been resolved in this release.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4237" format="html" scope="external">#4237</xref>
            <ul>
              <li id="2420">Earlier versions failed to expand content references that were specified in key definitions.
                In <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>, content references are now expanded before key references to ensure
                that all topics are available when the map is processed.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2420" format="html" scope="external">#2420</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4258" format="html" scope="external">#4258</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4261" format="html" scope="external">#4261</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="3007">Key references to duplicate topics created via <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attributes caused
                builds to fail. This issue was initially resolved for the original preprocessing routine in DITA-OT
                3.1.1. The original source information is now also correctly recorded for copy-to targets in
                  <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>, allowing builds to continue.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3007" format="html" scope="external">#3007</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3015" format="html" scope="external">#3015</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="3281">Earlier versions failed to catch certain validation errors in <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>.
                Map-first preprocessing has been updated to validate files correctly.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3281" format="html" scope="external">#3281</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="3446">In DITA-OT 3.5 to 4.1, map-first preprocessing failed to report unresolved content
                references to topics that were not referenced in the map, and any key references they contained were not
                expanded. In the past, this issue could be avoided by adding content reference targets to the map with
                the <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute set to <codeph>resource-only</codeph>, but this
                workaround is no longer necessary. Unresolved references should now be reported, and keys expanded even
                if the target topics are not referenced in the map.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3446" format="html" scope="external">#3446</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3546" format="html" scope="external">#3546</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="3514">Map-first preprocessing set incorrect values for the <xmlpi>path2project</xmlpi>,
                  <xmlpi>path2project-uri</xmlpi>, and <xmlpi>path2rootmap-uri</xmlpi> processing instructions. In
                  <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>, they are now set with correct values that match the original preprocess
                output.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3514" format="html" scope="external">#3514</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4252" format="html" scope="external">#4252</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4268">The map-first preprocessing test code has been simplified to use the same expected output
                for the original preprocessing routines and <codeph>preprocess2</codeph>.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4268" format="html" scope="external">#4268</xref>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li id="3718">Network file URI validation has been fixed to allow builds to continue when cross-references
            point to invalid URIs. Up until DITA-OT 3.6, the non-standard 2-slash format could be used to represent the
            server name in Windows UNC filenames such as <filepath>\\server\folder\file.pdf</filepath> using the
            Authority part of the URI as <filepath>file://server/folder/file.pdf</filepath>. Recent versions of DITA-OT
            required the correct 3-slash notation with an explicitly empty authority component
              (<filepath>file:///server/folder/file.pdf</filepath>), or builds would fail. Validation has been relaxed
            to restore support for the 2-slash format.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3718" format="html" scope="external">#3718</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4255" format="html" scope="external">#4255</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4064">Chunk-to-content publishing failed on DITA map files whose paths included spaces. The chunk map
            reader module now normalizes map file paths to allow publishing to continue in these cases.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4064" format="html" scope="external">#4064</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4257" format="html" scope="external">#4257</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4254">The HTML5 plug-in has been updated to remove the remaining inline style attributes that
            prevented custom plug-ins from overriding the monospace font presentation of teletype
              <xmlelement>tt</xmlelement> elements. These changes move the default teletype styling to CSS to allow
            users to override the presentation in custom stylesheets. The output is visually equivalent to the results
            generated by previous toolkit versions.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4254" format="html" scope="external">#4254</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4267" format="html" scope="external">#4267</xref>
            <note type="important">In publishing environments that do not use the default common CSS files, these styles
              may need to be implemented in custom stylesheets.</note>
          </li>
          <li id="4259">Test coverage has been improved to include unit tests for preprocessing, integration tests for
            subject schemes, and unit tests for cascading metadata in duplicate topicrefs.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4259" format="html" scope="external">#4259</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4264" format="html" scope="external">#4264</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4280" format="html" scope="external">#4280</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4269">In earlier versions, cross-references or other links to titles that contained footnotes included
            the footnote text. For a link to a target element that has no explicit link text, DITA-OT computes default
            link text from the target element. Link text computation now ignores any <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement>
            elements it encounters, so the link shows only the text from the <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4269" format="html" scope="external">#4269</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4276" format="html" scope="external">#4276</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4275">When maps point to the same resource in multiple topic references with different navigation
            titles (or other topic metadata), older versions of DITA-OT used the metadata from the first reference for
            all subsequent instances. The original code was written to cascade metadata within the map and also collect
            metadata to be pushed to topics. This code worked when each topic was only referenced once. When there were
            duplicates, only the first topic reference got the correct cascaded metadata; the second reference was
            processed with the cascaded metadata, but also with the metadata from the first topicref. The code has been
            refactored to separate metadata cascading within maps from the collection of metadata to push to topics, so
            subsequent references to the same resource now retain the correct metadata for each instance.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4275" format="html" scope="external">#4275</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4283" format="html" scope="external">#4283</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4284" format="html" scope="external">#4284</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4274">The bundled XML Resolver has been upgraded to version 5.2.1, which no longer fails on invalid
            URI characters like spaces or Windows backslashes, and now also runs in environments with a restrictive
            security manager.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4274" format="html" scope="external">#4274</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4279" format="html" scope="external">#4279</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on the issues resolved since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1.2+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >4.1.2 milestone</xref> and
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/4.1.1...4.1.2" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v4.1.1">
    <title>DITA-OT 4.1.1
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted">released July 20, 2023</ph>
    </title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 4.1.1 is a maintenance release that includes the following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1.1+is%3Aclosed+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
          <li id="4155">In previous releases, there were some cases in which a <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element
            inside an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element was not annotated with the
            expected <xmlpi>ditaot usershortdesc</xmlpi> processing instruction during preprocessing. These omissions
            have been corrected to aid in debugging. (This change is relevant only within preprocessing, as these
            processing instructions are deleted when preprocessing completes.)
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4155" format="html" scope="external">#4155</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4218">When building HTML output, earlier versions reported XSLT errors while resolving custom header
            files if paths used Windows backslash characters “<codeph>\</codeph>” as separators. Path separators in
              <parmname>args.ftr</parmname>, <parmname>args.hdf</parmname>, and <parmname>args.hdr</parmname> parameter
            values are now converted to the forward slash character “<codeph>/</codeph>” to ensure URLs are valid before
            they are passed to XSLT.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4218" format="html" scope="external">#4218</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4226" format="html" scope="external">#4226</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4221">For cross-references to a topic, the target topic’s short description is processed to create a
            link description. When that <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> element contained another cross-reference,
            earlier versions did not process it correctly, and reported <msgnum>DOTX031E</msgnum> (file not available)
            errors during processing. This issue is now fixed, and link descriptions are created correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4221" format="html" scope="external">#4221</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4239" format="html" scope="external">#4239</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4230">Build scripts have been updated to ensure unit tests run correctly during Gradle builds.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4230" format="html" scope="external">#4230</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4234">The RELAX NG grammar caching changes in DITA-OT 4.0 introduced a configuration bug that
            accidentally disabled XML Schema Definition validation. Processing and tests have been updated to ensure
            that XSD-based maps and topic files can be published correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3926" format="html" scope="external">#3926</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4234" format="html" scope="external">#4234</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4238" format="html" scope="external">#4238</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4240">When logging was changed to use processing mode in DITA-OT 4.1, the change logged the exception
            without location. Logging code has been corrected to restore the location information to the exception, so
            errors once again show the line/column number where the problem appears.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4187" format="html" scope="external">#4187</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4240" format="html" scope="external">#4240</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4248" format="html" scope="external">#4248</xref>
          </li>
          <li>Several dependencies have been upgraded to include the latest utility versions and fix security issues in
            bundled libraries:
            <ul>
              <li id="4227">Guava 32.1.1
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4227" format="html" scope="external">#4227</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4245" format="html" scope="external">#4245</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4216">Jackson 2.15.2
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4216" format="html" scope="external">#4216</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4228" format="html" scope="external">#4228</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4246">Logback 1.4.8 and SLF4J 2.0.7
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4246" format="html" scope="external">#4246</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4250" format="html" scope="external">#4250</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4241">Saxon 12.3
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4241" format="html" scope="external">#4241</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4247" format="html" scope="external">#4247</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4250" format="html" scope="external">#4250</xref>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on the issues resolved since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1.1+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >4.1.1 milestone</xref> and
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/4.1...4.1.1" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v4.1">
    <title>DITA-OT 4.1
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted">released June 22, 2023</ph>
    </title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm/>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.1 includes <ph id="summary">a new version of the
            Lightweight DITA plug-in with significant enhancements to Markdown processing, and updates for the latest
            DITA 2.0 draft standard</ph>.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Plug-in development features</title>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1+is%3Aclosed+label%3Afeature+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="4137">Since DITA-OT 3.5, the <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
            <parmname>plugins</parmname> subcommand shows a list of the currently installed plug-ins by plug-in ID. To
            make it easier to determine which version of each plug-in is installed, the output now includes the version
            number for each plug-in as specified in the <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4137" format="html" scope="external">#4137</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4141" format="html" scope="external">#4141</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4159">Previously only files referenced from the start map could be parsed using a custom parser. The
            start map itself was always processed as DITA XML. As of DITA-OT 4.1, processing has been updated to also
            allow the start map to use a custom parser. This change allows recent versions of the LwDITA plug-in to
            process Markdown maps.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4159" format="html" scope="external">#4159</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4205">Plug-in developers can now configure custom parsers via SAX properties that provide a list of
            formats and processing mode. The LwDITA plug-in uses this mechanism to configure the options supported for
            Markdown and MDITA.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4205" format="html" scope="external">#4205</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="lwdita">
        <title>Lightweight DITA and Markdown updates</title>
        <p>The <codeph>org.lwdita</codeph> plug-in has been updated to version <keyword keyref="tool.lwdita.version"/>,
          which includes performance improvements and updates to Markdown processing to reflect recent changes to the
          latest LwDITA drafts from OASIS.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b>Markdown output</b></p>
            <ul>
              <li>When generating Markdown output, the less-than “&lt;” and greater-than “&gt;” characters are now added
                to <xmlelement>xmlelement</xmlelement> content as in HTML and PDF output.</li>
              <li>Markdown output now treats programming and software domain elements as code spans and wraps the
                content in backtick quotes (<codeph>`</codeph>) for better correspondence with HTML5 output, which wraps
                these elements in <xmlelement>code</xmlelement>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>
            <p><b>Markdown input</b></p>
            <ul>
              <li>Standard Markdown syntax can now be used to indicate a span of code by wrapping it with backtick
                quotes (<codeph>`</codeph>). In Markdown DITA input, these constructs are converted to DITA
                  <xmlelement>codeph</xmlelement> elements on import, and rendered as <xmlelement>code</xmlelement>
                elements in HTML output. In MDITA input, backtick code spans are parsed as teletype
                  <xmlelement>tt</xmlelement> elements to align with LwDITA, which supports teletype highlighting in
                XDITA.</li>
              <li>The LwDITA plug-in supports a new <codeph>$schema</codeph> key in the YAML front matter block. This
                key can be used to define parsing options in topic files for more control over how Markdown content is
                converted to DITA. For more information, see
                <xref keyref="markdown-schemas"/>.</li>
              <li>Earlier versions of the plug-in failed to parse certain Markdown tables correctly. Table parsing has
                been improved to ensure these cases are properly processed.</li>
              <li>The MDITA core profile can now be specified via the new schema key in the YAML front matter
                block.</li>
              <li>Any <xmlpi>linefeed</xmlpi> processing instructions in Markdown input are now converted to line feeds
                in HTML5 and PDF output.</li>
              <li>Markdown DITA supports both loose and
                <xref href="https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/#tight" format="html" scope="external">tight</xref> list
                spacing (with no blank lines between list items). MDITA treats all lists as loose, and wraps each list
                item in a paragraph: <codeph>&lt;li>&lt;p>item&lt;/p>&lt;/li></codeph>.</li>
              <li>DITA maps can now be written in Markdown using standard Markdown syntax for links and lists.
                <ul>
                  <li>In Markdown DITA, the schema key in the YAML front matter block is used to define the file as a
                    map. Unordered list items create <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, and ordered list items
                    create <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements with
                      <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>=<option>sequence</option>. List items without a link are treated
                    as topic heads.</li>
                  <li>In MDITA, maps use the file name extension <filepath>mditamap</filepath> to define the file as a
                    map. Both ordered and unordered list items create <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>, and any
                    unlinked topic heads are ignored.</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>The flexmark Markdown parsing library has been updated to version 0.64.</p></li>
          <li>
            <p>The XDITA plug-in has been updated to version <keyword keyref="tool.xdita.version"/>, which includes
              recent changes to the grammar files from OASIS (as of <keyword keyref="draft-xdita-grammar-state"/>).
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4214" format="html" scope="external">#4214</xref>
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="dita-2-0-preview">
        <title>Updated DITA 2.0 preview</title>
        <p>In addition to the
          <xref keyref="dita-v2-0-support"/> provided in DITA-OT 3.5 – 4.0, this release includes updated processing for
          the latest draft versions of the DITA 2.0 grammar files from OASIS (as of <keyword
            keyref="draft-dita-grammar-state"
          />). <!-- Link to PRs that update 2.0 grammar files-->
        </p>
        <ul conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/added-in-4.1">
          <li/>
        </ul>
        <p conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/grammar-files"/>
        <note conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/more-to-come"/>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements and changes</title>
        <indexterm/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.1 includes the following enhancements and changes to
          existing features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="4020">When publishing to HTML and PDF, email links no longer include the <codeph>mailto:</codeph> 
            prefix in the default link text.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4020" format="html" scope="external">#4020</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4089" format="html" scope="external">#4089</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4048">When filtering profiled content with DITAVAL files that exclude content by default, the
              <msgnum>DOTJ031I</msgnum> message no longer appears when no rule is specified for a certain attribute.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4048" format="html" scope="external">#4048</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4073" format="html" scope="external">#4073</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4090">The Java code has been refactored to use new language and library features from recent Java
            versions. These changes make the code more future-proof and easier to maintain.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4090" format="html" scope="external">#4090</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4091" format="html" scope="external">#4091</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4092" format="html" scope="external">#4092</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4121" format="html" scope="external">#4121</xref>
          </li>
          <li>The following bundled plug-ins have been upgraded to the latest versions:
            <ul>
              <li id="4140">The Normalized DITA plug-in version 1.1 now removes unnecessary key artefacts like
                  <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> or <xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> after key
                resolution, and <xmlelement>ditavalref</xmlelement> elements after branch filter resolution.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4140" format="html" scope="external">#4140</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4210">The Lightweight DITA plug-in version 5.5 includes the
                <xref href="#./lwdita"/> described above.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4167" format="html" scope="external">#4167</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4178" format="html" scope="external">#4178</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4210" format="html" scope="external">#4210</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4194">The PDF Theme plug-in version 0.7.0 adds support for tasks, and the hazard, highlight,
                markup, UI, and XML domains, so you can now style these elements in a YAML theme file without building a
                custom PDF plug-in.
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4194" format="html" scope="external">#4194</xref>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Several bundled dependencies have been upgraded to the latest versions:
            <ul>
              <li id="4182">Ant 1.10.13
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4182" format="html" scope="external">#4182</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4183">FOP 2.8
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4183" format="html" scope="external">#4183</xref>,
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4011" format="html" scope="external">#4011</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4197">Gradle wrapper 7.6.1
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4197" format="html" scope="external">#4197</xref>
              </li>
              <li id="4130">Saxon 12.2
                <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4130" format="html" scope="external">#4130</xref>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bug fixes</title>
        <indexterm/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.1 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="3242">Earlier versions of
            <xref keyref="map-first-preproc"/> (preprocess2) failed to copy non-DITA files to the output directory.
            Processing has been updated to copy media files and other linked assets.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3242" format="html" scope="external">#3242</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3966" format="html" scope="external">#3966</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4132" format="html" scope="external">#4132</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3903">When a map contained references to nested subtopics within the same topic file, earlier versions
            would process the file multiple times during branch filtering. The output was correct but runtime was
            increased. This issue has been fixed so that the topic file is only filtered once.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3903" format="html" scope="external">#3903</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4152" format="html" scope="external">#4152</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3967">In earlier versions, cross-references to <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> footnote elements without
            target text were rendered with two levels of <xmlelement>sup</xmlelement> superscript formatting in XHTML
            and HTML5 output. Now, these links are only superscripted once.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3967" format="html" scope="external">#3967</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3968" format="html" scope="external">#3968</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4131">When generating PDF output, earlier versions failed with the <msgnum>PDFX005F</msgnum> error
            when topic references targeted external resources with the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute set to
              <codeph>external</codeph>. Processing has been updated to properly recognize external resources and allow
            builds to complete.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4131" format="html" scope="external">#4131</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4144">Earlier versions included DITA 2.0 grammar files from OASIS that referenced non-public URNs. The
            files have been updated to the latest versions (as of <keyword keyref="draft-dita-grammar-state"/>), which
            include updated references in the RELAX NG files.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4144" format="html" scope="external">#4144</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4177" format="html" scope="external">#4177</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4165">Earlier versions reported errors when processing DITA 2.0 content with empty
              <xmlatt>specializations</xmlatt> attribute values. Processing has been updated to handle these cases
            correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4165" format="html" scope="external">#4165</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4181">When generating HTMLHelp with DITA-OT 4.0, builds failed with the <msgnum>DOTA015F</msgnum>
            error. HTMLHelp has been updated to replace the outdated <codeph>preprocess.copy-image.skip</codeph>
            property with the corresponding DITA 4.0 <codeph>build-step.copy-image</codeph> property for compatibility
            with recent toolkit versions.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4181" format="html" scope="external">#4181</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4186" format="html" scope="external">#4186</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4184">When topic short descriptions contain cross-reference links that point to one another in
            circular references across topics, earlier versions would fail with an infinite-recursion stylesheet loop.
            Now, <xmlelement
            >shortdesc</xmlelement> descriptions in referenced elements are processed only one level deep.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4184" format="html" scope="external">#4184</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4185" format="html" scope="external">#4185</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4187">In earlier versions, setting the <parmname>processing-mode</parmname> parameter to
              <option>strict</option> would only stop processing if errors were reported from the Java code. Any XSLT
            errors were logged to the console, but processing continued. Now, XSLT errors will also stop processing, so
              <option>strict</option> mode is a bit … <i>stricter</i>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4187" format="html" scope="external">#4187</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.1 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 4.0..` -->
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to the core toolkit, not docs.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Robert D Anderson</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
          <li>Chris Papademetrious</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Duna Marius Cosmin</li>
          <li>Josh Johnson</li>
          <li>Toshihiko Makita</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/4.0...4.1"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.1 provides corrections and
          improvements to existing topics, along with new information in the following topics:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="using-project-files"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="markdown-input"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="dita2markdown"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="plugin-extension-points"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="markdown-formats"/>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="markdown-dita-syntax"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="mdita-syntax"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="format-comparison"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="markdown-schemas"/></li>
              <li>
                <xref keyref="custom-schemas"/></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release <keyword
            keyref="release"
          />, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A4.1+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >4.1 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.1 includes
          <xref keyref="docs-contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to docs, not to the core toolkit.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Lief Erickson</li>
          <li>Darrenn Jackson</li>
          <li>Mark Giffin</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/4.0...4.1"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
