<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<!--  This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable license.  -->
<reference id="ID" rev="4.0">
  <title>DITA Open Toolkit 4.0 Release Notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Release Notes</navtitle>
  </titlealts>

  <abstract>
    <shortdesc>DITA Open Toolkit 4.0.2 is a maintenance release that fixes issues
      reported in DITA-OT 4.0, which includes <ph conref="#v4.0/summary"/>.</shortdesc>
    <p conkeyref="conref-task/semver-info"/>
    <note type="tip"><ph conkeyref="conref-task/download-ot"/></note>
  </abstract>

  <reference id="requirements">
    <title>Requirements: Java 17</title>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">Add info on new minimum Java version or any other requirements that have changed
          since previous release.</draft-comment>
        <p conkeyref="reusable-components/java-clients"/>
        <p conkeyref="reusable-components/java-bc"/>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v4.0.2" outputclass="mark">
    <title>DITA-OT 4.0.2
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted"> released February 18, 2023</ph>
    </title>

    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 4.0.2 is a maintenance release that includes the
          following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0.2+is%3Aclosed+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
          <li id="4071">Earlier versions of DITA-OT did not respect key references defined on long descriptions within
            image elements. Processing has been updated to ensure that <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attributes on
              <xmlelement>longdescref</xmlelement> elements are resolved to the resource defined by the
              <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute on the key.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4071" format="html" scope="external">#4071</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4080" format="html" scope="external">#4080</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4076">If <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attributes were used to create duplicate versions of topics,
            previous versions did not resolve key references to content inside the topic copies correctly. Key reference
            processing has been corrected to ensure that topic IDs for copied topics are properly adjusted when
            calculating link targets.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4076" format="html" scope="external">#4076</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4110" format="html" scope="external">#4110</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4104">In certain cases, when a context map resource was passed to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command
            with the <parmname>--resource</parmname> option or the <parmname>args.resources</parmname> parameter, the
            resource map was overwritten with its temporary version from preprocessing. These maps are now copied and
            processed to the temporary files folder instead of being overwritten in-place, and the key values they
            contain are correctly resolved from the copies in the temporary folder.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4104" format="html" scope="external">#4104</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4112" format="html" scope="external">#4112</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4106">In earlier versions, the DITA-OT logging configuration mistakenly enabled full debug logging for
            all Java packages in any of the installed plug-ins. This error has been corrected to preserve the default
              <codeph>INFO</codeph> level for custom plug-ins, and only enable debug logging for Java code in DITA-OT
            itself.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4106" format="html" scope="external">#4106</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4114" format="html" scope="external">#4114</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4117">Content key references in map titles were not resolved if they pointed to phrase elements that
            contained another <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement> element. Key references are now handled correctly, even when
              <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> targets contain nested phrase elements.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4117" format="html" scope="external">#4117</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4120" format="html" scope="external">#4120</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4118">Obsolete Travis configuration files have been removed from the DITA-OT repository.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4118" format="html" scope="external">#4118</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on the issues resolved since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0.2+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >4.0.2 milestone</xref> and
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/4.0.1...4.0.2" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v4.0.1">
    <title>DITA-OT 4.0.1 <ph outputclass="small text-muted"> released December 9, 2022</ph>
    </title>

    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit 4.0.1 is a maintenance release that includes the
          following bug fixes.</p>
        <ul>
          <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0.1+is%3Aclosed+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
          <li id="3435">
            <ph conkeyref="migrating-to-4.0/place-tbl-lbl"/>
          </li>
          <li id="4015">In earlier versions, the <parmname>args.xhtml.toc.class</parmname> and
              <parmname>args.html5.toc.class</parmname> properties did not work. HTML processing has been updated to
            ensure that the value of the <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attribute is correctly set on the
              <xmlelement>body</xmlelement> element in the table of contents (TOC) files generated for XHTML and HTML5
            output.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4015" format="html" scope="external">#4015</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4065" format="html" scope="external">#4065</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4016">The bundled Jackson data binding library was updated the latest version (2.14.0) to resolve a
            security vulnerability.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4016" format="html" scope="external">#4016</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4058" format="html" scope="external">#4058</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4017">When link targets included index terms, PDF output generated by earlier versions added the text
            of the index entries to the end of cross-reference link text. Processing has been updated to correctly
            filter <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements when computing the target text for
              <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> elements.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4017" format="html" scope="external">#4017</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4030" format="html" scope="external">#4030</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4021">In earlier releases, syntax diagrams with an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute did not preserve the
            ID in HTML5 output. This is now fixed.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4021" format="html" scope="external">#4021</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4057" format="html" scope="external">#4057</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4029">A spelling mistake has been corrected in the <msgnum>DOTX034E</msgnum> message that appears when
            unordered list items are cross-referenced without specifying link text.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4029" format="html" scope="external">#4029</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4043">In earlier versions, conditional processing did not work as expected when specialized attributes
            were used for flagging. The flagging module has been updated to work correctly with specialized attributes.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4043" format="html" scope="external">#4043</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4053" format="html" scope="external">#4053</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on the issues resolved since the previous release, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0.1+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >4.0.1 milestone</xref> and
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/4.0...4.0.1" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>

  <reference id="v4.0">
    <title>DITA-OT 4.0
      <ph outputclass="small text-muted">released November 12, 2022</ph>
    </title>
    <prolog>
      <metadata>
        <keywords>
          <indexterm/>
        </keywords>
      </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
      <section>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.0 includes 
          <ph id="summary">a new plug-in for easier PDF customization, project file improvements,
            updates to LwDITA processing, and support for the split chunking feature in the latest drafts of the
            upcoming DITA 2.0 standard<!-- (and new elements, domains, etc.)--></ph>.</p>
      </section>
      <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0+is%3Aclosed+label%3Afeature+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
      <section id="new-pdf-plugin">
        <title>New PDF theme plug-in</title>
        <p><ph conkeyref="pdf-themes/shortdesc-ph"/></p>
        <div conkeyref="pdf-themes/intro"/>
        <note type="tip">For information on the available theming options and a sample YAML theme, see
          <xref keyref="pdf-themes"/>.</note>
      </section>

      <section id="project-files">
        <title>Project file improvements</title>
        <ul>
          <li id="3682">
            <p>The re-usable <xmlelement>publication</xmlelement> element in DITA-OT project files can now be overridden
              with additional parameters (or modified parameter settings) by adding new <xmlelement>param</xmlelement>
              elements to the referencing element.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3682" format="html" scope="external">#3682</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3907" format="html" scope="external">#3907</xref>
            </p>
            <p>This allows common publications to be defined in one place, re-used in others, and overlaid with local
              variations when the common settings need to be adjusted in certain cases.</p>
            <codeblock
              outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
            >&lt;project xmlns="https://www.dita-ot.org/project">
  &lt;publication transtype="html5" id="common-html5">
    &lt;param name="nav-toc" value="partial"/>
  &lt;/publication>
  &lt;deliverable>
    &lt;context>
      &lt;input href="root.ditamap"/>
    &lt;/context>
    &lt;output href="./out"/>
    &lt;publication idref="common-html5">
      &lt;!-- Define publication-specific parameter settings -->
      &lt;param name="nav-toc" value="full"/>
    &lt;/publication>
  &lt;/deliverable>
&lt;/project></codeblock></li>
          <li id="3690">
            <p>The <xmlelement>publication</xmlelement> element in DITA-OT project files now supports nested
                <xmlelement>profile</xmlelement> elements. When both context and publication contain profiles, they are
              applied in order: publication profiles first, context profiles second.
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3690" format="html" scope="external">#3690</xref>,
              <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3895" format="html" scope="external">#3895</xref>
            </p>
            <p>This allows publications to define filter criteria that are applied to the content of the individual
              publication (in addition to those specified for the entire deliverable context).</p>
            <codeblock
              outputclass="language-xml normalize-space show-line-numbers show-whitespace"
            >&lt;project xmlns="https://www.dita-ot.org/project">
  &lt;deliverable name="Name" id="site">
    &lt;context name="Site" id="site">
      &lt;input href="site.ditamap"/>
      &lt;profile>
        &lt;ditaval href="site.ditaval"/>
      &lt;/profile>
    &lt;/context>
    &lt;output href="./site"/>
    &lt;publication transtype="html5" id="sitePub" name="Site">
      &lt;profile>
        &lt;!-- Define publication-specific filters -->
        &lt;ditaval href="site-html5.ditaval"/>
      &lt;/profile>
    &lt;/publication>
  &lt;/deliverable>
&lt;/project></codeblock>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="lwdita">
        <title>Lightweight DITA and Markdown updates</title>
        <p>The <codeph>org.lwdita</codeph> plug-in has been updated to version <keyword keyref="tool.lwdita.version"/>,
          which includes Markdown processing improvements.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>DITA-OT 4.0 includes processing updates to reflect recent changes to the latest drafts of the LwDITA
            profile from OASIS</li>
          <li>Add support for Markdown files without first-level headings</li>
          <li>Better support for
            <xref keyref="python-markdown-attlists"/></li>
          <li>Markdown input improvements:
            <ul>
              <li>Improve subscript and superscript support</li>
              <li>Fix backslash escapes in code phrases (applies only to
                  <xmlatt>format</xmlatt>=<codeph>markdown</codeph>, as MDITA does not support code phrases)</li>
              <li>Add support for table spanning</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>In previous releases, standard Markdown syntax could be used to indicate a span of code by wrapping it
            with backtick quotes (<codeph>`</codeph>). These constructs were converted to DITA
              <xmlelement>codeph</xmlelement> elements on import, and rendered as <xmlelement>code</xmlelement> elements
            in HTML output. This support has been removed from MDITA processing to align with LwDITA, which does not
            support code phrase markup.</li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="dita-2-0-preview">
        <title>Updated DITA 2.0 preview</title>
        <p>In addition to the
          <xref keyref="dita-v2-0-support">DITA 2.0 preview support</xref> provided in previous releases (3.5, 3.6, and
          3.7), DITA-OT 4.0 includes updated processing support for the latest drafts of the
          DITA 2.0 DTD and RELAX NG grammar files from OASIS (as of <keyword keyref="draft-dita-grammar-state"/>). 
          <!-- Link to PRs that update 2.0 grammar files-->
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4040" format="html" scope="external">#4040</xref>
        </p>
        <ul conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/added-in-4.0">
          <li/>
        </ul>
        <p conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/grammar-files"/>
        <note conkeyref="dita-v2-0-support/more-to-come"/>
      </section>

      <section conkeyref="migrating-to-4.0/UTF8-coderef">
        <title/>
        <p/>
      </section>

      <section id="enhancements">
        <title>Enhancements and changes</title>
        <indexterm/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.0 includes the following enhancements and changes to
          existing features:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="3757">When
            <xref keyref="using-project-files">publishing with project files</xref>, separate temporary folders are now
            created for each deliverable in the project. This facilitates debugging and troubleshooting, as it makes it
            easier to inspect the temporary files that have been created for each deliverable.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3757" format="html" scope="external">#3757</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3898" format="html" scope="external">#3898</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3827">
            <ph conkeyref="migrating-to-4.0/reflection"/>
          </li>
          <li id="3830">Attribute generation routines in XSLT stylesheets have been refactored from the old XSLT 1.0
            style <xmlelement>xsl:value-of select="…"</xmlelement> to the modern XSLT 2 notation:
              <xmlelement>xsl:attribute select="…"/</xmlelement>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3830" format="html" scope="external">#3830</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3851">Many Ant targets refer to <codeph>skip</codeph> properties that can be used to skip
            preprocessing steps. In earlier releases, these properties were not set or named consistently; these
            properties are now generated automatically with more consistent naming and behavior. 
        <!--<xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3845" format="html" scope="external">#3845</xref>,-->
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3851" format="html" scope="external">#3851</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3891">When an included file uses a character set that is neither the system default nor matches the
            explicit character set definition in the include, reading the file may fail. A new <msgnum>DOTJ084E</msgnum>
            error message makes it easier to debug character set encoding issues like this in source files.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3891" format="html" scope="external">#3891</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3926">Grammar caching and validation has been added for RELAX NG–based DITA topics and maps. Together
            these enhancements make publishing faster and more reliable for RNG-based content.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3253" format="html" scope="external">#3253</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3661" format="html" scope="external">#3661</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3926" format="html" scope="external">#3926</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3974">Many XSLT files have been updated to use <codeph>#current</codeph> for the processing mode. This
            simplifies the code and makes it easier to read and maintain.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3974" format="html" scope="external">#3974</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="bugs">
        <title>Bug fixes</title>
        <indexterm/>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.0 provides fixes for the following bugs:</p>
        <!-- https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues?q=milestone%3ANext+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug+sort%3Acreated-asc -->
        <ul>
          <li id="2641">In earlier releases, unexpected or invalid markup in a <filepath>plugin.xml</filepath> file
            might throw errors, but the installation would still show as successful. This has been fixed, and plug-in
            installation will now fail when the integration process does not work.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/2641" format="html" scope="external">#2641</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3825" format="html" scope="external">#3825</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3303">In earlier releases, the <xmlatt>frame</xmlatt>=<codeph>"none"</codeph> attribute on tables was
            not properly handled for PDF output. This issue has been fixed, and the table border is now handled
            correctly.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3303" format="html" scope="external">#3303</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3852" format="html" scope="external">#3852</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3854" format="html" scope="external">#3854</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="3684">In 3.7 and some earlier releases, including namespaced elements such as
              <xmlelement>m:math</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>svg:svg</xmlelement> in a topic that is chunked would
            result in build failures. The chunking process now handles these elements without errors.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/3684" format="html" scope="external">#3684</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4018">The <codeph>FINALOUTPUTTYPE</codeph> XSLT parameter has been removed from
              <filepath>maplinkImpl.xsl</filepath> and <filepath>mappullImpl.xsl</filepath>; this parameter is a legacy
            of very early code and has never been used by DITA-OT.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4018" format="html" scope="external">#4018</xref>
          </li>
          <li id="4032">In DITA-OT 3.7.4, publishing failed with an IllegalArgumentException when images were referenced
            with an HTTP URI scheme. Processing has been corrected to set the missing <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute 
            to <codeph>external</codeph> per <xref keyref="dita13-spec-scope-att"/>.
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4032" format="html" scope="external">#4032</xref>,
            <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/issues/4039" format="html" scope="external">#4039</xref>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>

      <section id="contrib">
        <title>Contributors</title>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.0 includes
          <xref keyref="contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <!--  https://github.com/tj/git-extras/blob/master/Commands.md#git-summary – `git summary 3.7.4..` -->
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to the core toolkit, not docs.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
          <li>Radu Coravu</li>
          <li>Robert D Anderson</li>
          <li>Toshihiko Makita</li>
          <li>Eric Sirois</li>
          <li>Chris Papademetrious</li>
          <li>Julien Lacour</li>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/dita-ot/compare/3.7.4...4.0" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref> on GitHub.</p>
      </section>

      <section id="docs">
        <title>Documentation updates</title>
        <p>The documentation for DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.0 provides corrections and
          improvements to existing topics, along with new information in the following topics:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="pdf-themes"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="migrating-to-4.0"/></li>
          <li>
            <xref keyref="dita-v2-0-support"/></li>
        </ul>
        <p>For additional information on documentation issues resolved in DITA Open Toolkit Release <keyword
            keyref="release"
          />, see the
          <xref
            href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/issues?q=milestone%3A4.0+is%3Aclosed"
            format="html"
            scope="external"
          >4.0 milestone</xref> in the documentation repository.</p>
        <p>DITA Open Toolkit Release 4.0 includes
          <xref keyref="docs-contributions"/> by the following people:</p>
        <draft-comment author="Roger">NOTE: This lists contributions to docs, not to the core toolkit.</draft-comment>
        <ol>
          <li>Roger Sheen</li>
          <li>Jarno Elovirta</li>
        </ol>
        <p>For the complete list of documentation changes since the previous release, see the
          <xref href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/compare/3.7.4...4.0" format="html" scope="external">
            changelog</xref>.</p>
      </section>
    </refbody>
  </reference>
</reference>
